The federal government says it is not contemplating the implementation of diaspora voting if law required to make it a reality is passed by the National Assembly. The Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, who stated on Monday at a media briefing preparatory to 3rd Diaspora Investment Summit, said she was optimistic that the bill would scale through at both chambers. “I’m optimistic that the Diaspora voting is not a question of ‘if’ its going to happen but ‘when’ it’s going to happen. It’s inevitable, and it has to happen.. “Professor Yakubu has said that INEC is ready, President Buhari has made it clear that the presidency is ready so we are only waiting for the National Assembly to make this happen, and it will happen by the grace of God”. Dabiri-Erewa said the diaspora voting is part of what has been slates for amendment in law of the federal republic of Nigeria and it has passed first and second reading on the floor of the national assembly. “There will be a strong public hearing where stakeholders will come together and decide what is going g to happened. “For instance, people are already saying if you have not been to Nigeria for couple of years do you deserve to vote? which category of Nigerians are going to vote? How do we go about the process. “We are not going to copy other countries, we are going to do it our own way” she added. According to her, the summit with a theme: ” Post COVID-19 Economic Resurgence: Targeting Diaspora Investment, will be an eye opener and knowledge ground for the Diaspora investors, adding that its the role of NIDCOM to serve as a bridge that link between the investors and make it possible. The summit is expected to attract Diaspora investors from: Healthcare; Education; Agric-business; Creative Sports and Entertainment; Telecom; ICT/Fintech and Manufacturing sectors, and its expected to attract over 3,000 participants on free attendance. The federal government says it is not contemplating the implementation of diaspora voting if law required to make it a reality is passed by the National Assembly. The Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, who stated on Monday at a media briefing preparatory to 3rd Diaspora Investment Summit, said she was optimistic that the bill would scale through at both chambers. “I’m optimistic that the Diaspora voting is not a question of ‘if’ its going to happen but ‘when’ it’s going to happen. It’s inevitable, and it has to happen.. “Professor Yakubu has said that INEC is ready, President Buhari has made it clear that the presidency is ready so we are only waiting for the National Assembly to make this happen, and it will happen by the grace of God”. Dabiri-Erewa said the diaspora voting is part of what has been slates for amendment in law of the federal republic of Nigeria and it has passed first and second reading on the floor of the national assembly. “There will be a strong public hearing where stakeholders will come together and decide what is going g to happened. “For instance, people are already saying if you have not been to Nigeria for couple of years do you deserve to vote? which category of Nigerians are going to vote? How do we go about the process. “We are not going to copy other countries, we are going to do it our own way” she added. According to her, the summit with a theme: ” Post COVID-19 Economic Resurgence: Targeting Diaspora Investment, will be an eye opener and knowledge ground for the Diaspora investors, adding that its the role of NIDCOM to serve as a bridge that link between the investors and make it possible. The summit is expected to attract Diaspora investors from: Healthcare; Education; Agric-business; Creative Sports and Entertainment; Telecom; ICT/Fintech and Manufacturing sectors, and its expected to attract over 3,000 participants on free attendance.