A Chadian diplomat, Hussein Ibrahim Taha, has been elected as the new Secretary-General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on Saturday. He will succeed the outgoing Secretary General, Dr Yousef Al-Othaimin, whose tenure has expired. Taha will lead one of the biggest international organisations for the next five years. He was elected at the end of the 47th session of the OIC Council of Foreign Ministers, in Niamey, Niger Republic after three other candidates unanimously stepped down for him to emerge as the new Secretary General of the organization. OIC Secretary General is elected by the Council of Foreign Ministers for a period of five years, renewable once. He is elected from the nationals of the member states in accordance with the principles of equitable geographical distribution, rotation and equal opportunity for all member states with due consideration to competence, integrity and experience. Speaking shortly after his election, the new Secretary General promised to work hard to address the present challenges affecting the OIC member states as well as to fight for the interest of the minority Muslims in non-member states. On his part, the outgoing Secretary General thanked the organisation for giving him the opportunity to serve her and prayed for the same to his successor. Daily Trust reports that the two-day session which discussed several issues affecting Muslim countries globally especially in the areas of terrorism, rising Islamophobia and insecurity challenges had delegates from all the 57 member states that formed the organisation A Chadian diplomat, Hussein Ibrahim Taha, has been elected as the new Secretary-General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on Saturday. He will succeed the outgoing Secretary General, Dr Yousef Al-Othaimin, whose tenure has expired. Taha will lead one of the biggest international organisations for the next five years. He was elected at the end of the 47th session of the OIC Council of Foreign Ministers, in Niamey, Niger Republic after three other candidates unanimously stepped down for him to emerge as the new Secretary General of the organization. OIC Secretary General is elected by the Council of Foreign Ministers for a period of five years, renewable once. He is elected from the nationals of the member states in accordance with the principles of equitable geographical distribution, rotation and equal opportunity for all member states with due consideration to competence, integrity and experience. Speaking shortly after his election, the new Secretary General promised to work hard to address the present challenges affecting the OIC member states as well as to fight for the interest of the minority Muslims in non-member states. On his part, the outgoing Secretary General thanked the organisation for giving him the opportunity to serve her and prayed for the same to his successor. Daily Trust reports that the two-day session which discussed several issues affecting Muslim countries globally especially in the areas of terrorism, rising Islamophobia and insecurity challenges had delegates from all the 57 member states that formed the organisation