Fresh crisis is brewing in the All Progressives Congress (APC) as Concerned Members Forum (CMF) has threatened to take legal action against the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee if they do not organise the party’s national convention in December or their tenure is extended. The Forum also asked the Committee to stop the ongoing membership registration nationwide, and update the existing register, alleging that the exercise was part of the agenda for tenure extension. The Buni’s committee was inaugurated in June, 2020, and saddled with the responsibility of administering the party’s affairs and organising a national convention within six months, following the dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) over alleged abuse of office. Addressing a press conference on Friday, in Abuja, leader of the Concerned APC Forum and a former governorship aspirant in Benue state, Ogenyi Okpokwu, asked the Caretaker Committee to immediately roll out a programme for the convention. “All the permanent party membership cards that were printed and submitted to the party’s national secretariat by APC Data Centre for onward distribution to our members in the wards, LGA and states should be distributed immediately. “Incase they cannot find it; they should request for it at our data centre. “The incoming National Working Committee should handle the updating of new register if we so need to update one. “If our demands are not met, we will have no option than to approach the courts for interpretation of our constitution as it was done before you came onboard and we will occupy our secretariats. The party belongs to us all. “The most senior member of sacked Oshiohmole-led NWC should be returned as Chairman because that is what our party constitution says. “Lastly, we, the Concerned APC members, call on President Muhammadu Buhari to call to order the caretaker committee before it destroy the image and the goodwill of our great party due to their selfish interests and tenure elongation plot. “We will not sit back and allow this to happen to our beloved,” the APC forum said. Reacting, the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, told our correspondent in a telephone chat that the party needed peace before going into the convention, saying those threatening the Committee did not mean well for the party. “Chairman of the caretaker committee is not looking for a job; he is a serving governor. “So, party members should be happy that he is trying to bring peace to the party. “You can’t go into a national convention with a divided house. There must be peace. “So, those threatening the party have a devilish mind and so they are on their own,” he said. Two members of the committee declined comments when contacted by our correspondent for a reaction. Fresh crisis is brewing in the All Progressives Congress (APC) as Concerned Members Forum (CMF) has threatened to take legal action against the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee if they do not organise the party’s national convention in December or their tenure is extended. The Forum also asked the Committee to stop the ongoing membership registration nationwide, and update the existing register, alleging that the exercise was part of the agenda for tenure extension. The Buni’s committee was inaugurated in June, 2020, and saddled with the responsibility of administering the party’s affairs and organising a national convention within six months, following the dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) over alleged abuse of office. Addressing a press conference on Friday, in Abuja, leader of the Concerned APC Forum and a former governorship aspirant in Benue state, Ogenyi Okpokwu, asked the Caretaker Committee to immediately roll out a programme for the convention. “All the permanent party membership cards that were printed and submitted to the party’s national secretariat by APC Data Centre for onward distribution to our members in the wards, LGA and states should be distributed immediately. “Incase they cannot find it; they should request for it at our data centre. “The incoming National Working Committee should handle the updating of new register if we so need to update one. “If our demands are not met, we will have no option than to approach the courts for interpretation of our constitution as it was done before you came onboard and we will occupy our secretariats. The party belongs to us all. “The most senior member of sacked Oshiohmole-led NWC should be returned as Chairman because that is what our party constitution says. “Lastly, we, the Concerned APC members, call on President Muhammadu Buhari to call to order the caretaker committee before it destroy the image and the goodwill of our great party due to their selfish interests and tenure elongation plot. “We will not sit back and allow this to happen to our beloved,” the APC forum said. Reacting, the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, told our correspondent in a telephone chat that the party needed peace before going into the convention, saying those threatening the Committee did not mean well for the party. “Chairman of the caretaker committee is not looking for a job; he is a serving governor. “So, party members should be happy that he is trying to bring peace to the party. “You can’t go into a national convention with a divided house. There must be peace. “So, those threatening the party have a devilish mind and so they are on their own,” he said. Two members of the committee declined comments when contacted by our correspondent for a reaction.