The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has denied that it awarded a N2 billion contract or withheld payment to the Rural Electrification Agency (REA). In a statement, NERC said it was reacting to report from the 2021 budget defence at the National Assembly. NERC said: “It has fully paid all amounts due to the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) in compliance with the provisions of the Electric Power Sector Reform Act. “Any surpluses that may be due for the 2019 fiscal year would be paid to the REA upon completion of the ongoing audit of the Commission’s accounts for the year ended December 31, 2019.” On the contract award, it said: “The Commission further clarifies that no contracts in the sum of N2 billion have been awarded to any person or company for the purpose of renovating and/or furnishing of the head office complex in Abuja. “The Only capital project included in the 2021 budgetary appropriation is a request for the provision of N294.064 million for partitioning and furnishing the head office in Abuja.” The commission said the project was being implemented in phases in alignment with the projected cash flows and in accordance with the approval granted by the Federal Executive Council at its meeting of July 11, 2018. The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has denied that it awarded a N2 billion contract or withheld payment to the Rural Electrification Agency (REA). In a statement, NERC said it was reacting to report from the 2021 budget defence at the National Assembly. NERC said: “It has fully paid all amounts due to the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) in compliance with the provisions of the Electric Power Sector Reform Act. “Any surpluses that may be due for the 2019 fiscal year would be paid to the REA upon completion of the ongoing audit of the Commission’s accounts for the year ended December 31, 2019.” On the contract award, it said: “The Commission further clarifies that no contracts in the sum of N2 billion have been awarded to any person or company for the purpose of renovating and/or furnishing of the head office complex in Abuja. “The Only capital project included in the 2021 budgetary appropriation is a request for the provision of N294.064 million for partitioning and furnishing the head office in Abuja.” The commission said the project was being implemented in phases in alignment with the projected cash flows and in accordance with the approval granted by the Federal Executive Council at its meeting of July 11, 2018.