President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the new membership registration in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), and the Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, announced this after submitting the timetable for party registration to President Buhari. Buni spoke on Tuesday while briefing State House reporters after a meeting with the President at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, in company of the Secretary of the caretaker committee, Senator John Akpanudoede; Chairman of the Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF) and Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu; and Governor Mohammed Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State. According to Buni, the approval is “In accordance of section 9.4 of the Constitution of the All Progressives Congress (October 2014 as Amended), The Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee consulted all stakeholders and have organized for membership registration. The said Section 9.4 provide as follows: “A Register of members shall be compiled and maintained at the Ward Level and be transmitted to the Secretariat of the Party at the Local Government Area, which shall transmit a copy to the State Headquarters, National Secretariat. “Provided that the Party shall update its membership records every six months and remit updated copies to appropriate Secretariats. Thereafter, it shall be the responsibility of a member to ensure that his or her name is duly entered in the Ward Register.” The caretaker chairman, who said the reconciliation effort would continue, expressed happiness over the victory in the Ondo state governorship election and the return of high profile members such as former Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara and Senator Barnabas Gemade, to the party. “No plan for tenure extension” Buni, who dismissed the rumours that the caretaker committee was plotting to elongate its tenure, said its existence remained at the mercy of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) which only has the power to end or elongate their tenure. He voiced optimism that the NEC would meet before the end of the year to work out a proper timetable for the party. Buni, while reacting to the 14-day ultimatum given to his committee to step down by some members of the party, said everyone has the freedom of expression. He, however, said that the NEC had not issued any ultimatum to the caretaker committee. The caretaker chairman was not categorical on when a party convention is likely to hold but said “it will happen soon.” President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the new membership registration in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), and the Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, announced this after submitting the timetable for party registration to President Buhari. Buni spoke on Tuesday while briefing State House reporters after a meeting with the President at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, in company of the Secretary of the caretaker committee, Senator John Akpanudoede; Chairman of the Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF) and Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu; and Governor Mohammed Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State. According to Buni, the approval is “In accordance of section 9.4 of the Constitution of the All Progressives Congress (October 2014 as Amended), The Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee consulted all stakeholders and have organized for membership registration. The said Section 9.4 provide as follows: “A Register of members shall be compiled and maintained at the Ward Level and be transmitted to the Secretariat of the Party at the Local Government Area, which shall transmit a copy to the State Headquarters, National Secretariat. “Provided that the Party shall update its membership records every six months and remit updated copies to appropriate Secretariats. Thereafter, it shall be the responsibility of a member to ensure that his or her name is duly entered in the Ward Register.” The caretaker chairman, who said the reconciliation effort would continue, expressed happiness over the victory in the Ondo state governorship election and the return of high profile members such as former Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara and Senator Barnabas Gemade, to the party. “No plan for tenure extension” Buni, who dismissed the rumours that the caretaker committee was plotting to elongate its tenure, said its existence remained at the mercy of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) which only has the power to end or elongate their tenure. He voiced optimism that the NEC would meet before the end of the year to work out a proper timetable for the party. Buni, while reacting to the 14-day ultimatum given to his committee to step down by some members of the party, said everyone has the freedom of expression. He, however, said that the NEC had not issued any ultimatum to the caretaker committee. The caretaker chairman was not categorical on when a party convention is likely to hold but said “it will happen soon.”