The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has said that economic growth, poverty reduction and job creation will be impossible without reliable data. Speaking during the 2020 African Statistics Day held in Abuja, the Statistician General of the Federation, Dr. Yemi Kale, said Nigeria must strive to produce good economic statistics to improve the living condition of the people. Dr. Kale said, “Available and appropriate use of good economic statistics can translate into better lives for people through providing evidence as a base for policy and decision-making by the nation or by firms, households and citizens.” The Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Ikanade Agba, made a case for a strong national statistical system with good infrastructure for collection, processing, compilation, analysis, dissemination and archiving of all social statistics. Represented by the Director of Macro-Economics, David Adeosun, the minister urged all users of statistics to effectively collaborate with the producers of statistical information to enable the desired results to be attained. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has said that economic growth, poverty reduction and job creation will be impossible without reliable data. Speaking during the 2020 African Statistics Day held in Abuja, the Statistician General of the Federation, Dr. Yemi Kale, said Nigeria must strive to produce good economic statistics to improve the living condition of the people. Dr. Kale said, “Available and appropriate use of good economic statistics can translate into better lives for people through providing evidence as a base for policy and decision-making by the nation or by firms, households and citizens.” The Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Ikanade Agba, made a case for a strong national statistical system with good infrastructure for collection, processing, compilation, analysis, dissemination and archiving of all social statistics. Represented by the Director of Macro-Economics, David Adeosun, the minister urged all users of statistics to effectively collaborate with the producers of statistical information to enable the desired results to be attained.