The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday urged President Muhammadu Buhari to present the 2014 National Conference Report to the National Assembly. The party in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, in Abuja, said that the authentic materials for a genuine restructuring of Nigeria were contained in the 2014 national conference report. Ologbondiyan said that the PDP rejected alleged plan by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to submit what it described as partisan report of its committee on restructuring into the National Assembly to replace the 2014 report. He described it as attempt to manipulate the system as well as frustrate the widespread clamour and efforts by majority of Nigerians for a genuine restructuring. Ologbondiyan said that such move would negate the wishes of some 200 million Nigerians, whose collective interests were contained in the conference report. Ologbondiyan said what Nigeria needed at the moment was restructuring genuinely derived from the people and which guarantees true federalism, equity, justice, fairness as well as national cohesion, and not a partisan document.(NAN)  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday urged President Muhammadu Buhari to present the 2014 National Conference Report to the National Assembly. The party in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, in Abuja, said that the authentic materials for a genuine restructuring of Nigeria were contained in the 2014 national conference report. Ologbondiyan said that the PDP rejected alleged plan by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to submit what it described as partisan report of its committee on restructuring into the National Assembly to replace the 2014 report. He described it as attempt to manipulate the system as well as frustrate the widespread clamour and efforts by majority of Nigerians for a genuine restructuring. Ologbondiyan said that such move would negate the wishes of some 200 million Nigerians, whose collective interests were contained in the conference report. Ologbondiyan said what Nigeria needed at the moment was restructuring genuinely derived from the people and which guarantees true federalism, equity, justice, fairness as well as national cohesion, and not a partisan document.(NAN) 