Fidelity Bank CEO Mr Nnamdi Okonkwo has restated the bank’s commitment to the highest standards of ethical and professional conduct in its dealings with customers and all stakeholders. He gave the assurance to mark the 2020 Corporate Compliance and Ethics Week. He said the week-long celebration provided a great opportunity to beam the spotlight on compliance and ethics. The Fidelity boss also said it was important to institutionalise the culture of compliance and ethics as an imperative for building a strong and enduring financial institution. “Let us all be reminded in all our dealings that we need to coexist and prosper together with all stakeholders including customers, suppliers, partners, local communities and employees who are integral to our survival as a business. “Doing the right things, the right way is the best approach to building a sustainable business,” he said. He said Fidelity Bank has kept ethics and professional integrity at the forefront of its business for over 30 years and further emphasised that the bank would continue to utilise digital technologies to deliver innovative financial services to customers. Corporate Compliance and Ethics Week is organised annually by the Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE) and provides organisations and employees with the opportunity to educate and drum up attention to the twin issues.  Fidelity Bank CEO Mr Nnamdi Okonkwo has restated the bank’s commitment to the highest standards of ethical and professional conduct in its dealings with customers and all stakeholders. He gave the assurance to mark the 2020 Corporate Compliance and Ethics Week. He said the week-long celebration provided a great opportunity to beam the spotlight on compliance and ethics. The Fidelity boss also said it was important to institutionalise the culture of compliance and ethics as an imperative for building a strong and enduring financial institution. “Let us all be reminded in all our dealings that we need to coexist and prosper together with all stakeholders including customers, suppliers, partners, local communities and employees who are integral to our survival as a business. “Doing the right things, the right way is the best approach to building a sustainable business,” he said. He said Fidelity Bank has kept ethics and professional integrity at the forefront of its business for over 30 years and further emphasised that the bank would continue to utilise digital technologies to deliver innovative financial services to customers. Corporate Compliance and Ethics Week is organised annually by the Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE) and provides organisations and employees with the opportunity to educate and drum up attention to the twin issues. 