CIG Motors (sole distributors of the GAC brand in Nigeria) said the newly launched GA4 and GS3 are designed exclusively for “young and upwardly mobile Nigerians.” In a statement, the auto dealer said it was committed to inspiring young and innovative car enthusiasts in Nigeria to ‘Create the Future’. A recent event, themed: Unity in Diversity’ saw the launch of the vehicles featuring a fusion of virtual coverage, live art and theatre. In attendance at the launch were the Lagos State Chief of Staff Mr. Tayo Ayinde; Mr. Amaju Pinnick – President of the Nigerian Football Federation; Mr. Usen Udoh – Group Chief Human Resources Officer – Dangote Group; alongside stakeholders from major corporations and industries across Nigeria witnessing this historic event. The Group Chairman of GAC, Chief Diana Chen, said the launch of the new GA4 and GS3 cars were an expressive medium to ‘create their future.’ The unveiling ceremony of the cars showcased a dynamic blend of innovation and creativity with exteriors following the unique design traditions of GAC. The interior looked and felt livelier with numerous chrome-coated parts, and many other features created with practicality and comfort in mind for a young Nigerian audience. A lucky winner of a brand new GA4 Car, 19-years old Paul Ndube Idafum from Badagry was unveiled at the event. He was selected from one of the numerous live audiences of the event on social media.  CIG Motors (sole distributors of the GAC brand in Nigeria) said the newly launched GA4 and GS3 are designed exclusively for “young and upwardly mobile Nigerians.” In a statement, the auto dealer said it was committed to inspiring young and innovative car enthusiasts in Nigeria to ‘Create the Future’. A recent event, themed: Unity in Diversity’ saw the launch of the vehicles featuring a fusion of virtual coverage, live art and theatre. In attendance at the launch were the Lagos State Chief of Staff Mr. Tayo Ayinde; Mr. Amaju Pinnick – President of the Nigerian Football Federation; Mr. Usen Udoh – Group Chief Human Resources Officer – Dangote Group; alongside stakeholders from major corporations and industries across Nigeria witnessing this historic event. The Group Chairman of GAC, Chief Diana Chen, said the launch of the new GA4 and GS3 cars were an expressive medium to ‘create their future.’ The unveiling ceremony of the cars showcased a dynamic blend of innovation and creativity with exteriors following the unique design traditions of GAC. The interior looked and felt livelier with numerous chrome-coated parts, and many other features created with practicality and comfort in mind for a young Nigerian audience. A lucky winner of a brand new GA4 Car, 19-years old Paul Ndube Idafum from Badagry was unveiled at the event. He was selected from one of the numerous live audiences of the event on social media. 