Unity Bank plc has launched ‘UnityCares’ to ease the facilitation of on-lending schemes targeted at individuals, businesses, manufacturers and service providers in the healthcare sector. UnityCares is aimed at supporting indigenous pharmaceutical companies and healthcare practitioners and other value chains businesses to provide access to loan facilities of up to N2 billion per company at a five per cent interest rate. The product follows in the footsteps of the credit support intervention fund by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for the health sector. Leveraging the CBN’s credit support intervention for the health sector, UnityCares hopes to empower as many enterprises as they meet the requirements for the facility. The Divisional Head, Retail, SME and E-business, Mr Olufunwa Akinmade, said: “UnityCares provides an invaluable opportunity to channel funds to Nigerian-owned healthcare businesses to build and expand capacity to meet exigencies for essential healthcare products and services in the face of unravelling global pandemic.” Unity Bank plc has launched ‘UnityCares’ to ease the facilitation of on-lending schemes targeted at individuals, businesses, manufacturers and service providers in the healthcare sector. UnityCares is aimed at supporting indigenous pharmaceutical companies and healthcare practitioners and other value chains businesses to provide access to loan facilities of up to N2 billion per company at a five per cent interest rate. The product follows in the footsteps of the credit support intervention fund by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for the health sector. Leveraging the CBN’s credit support intervention for the health sector, UnityCares hopes to empower as many enterprises as they meet the requirements for the facility. The Divisional Head, Retail, SME and E-business, Mr Olufunwa Akinmade, said: “UnityCares provides an invaluable opportunity to channel funds to Nigerian-owned healthcare businesses to build and expand capacity to meet exigencies for essential healthcare products and services in the face of unravelling global pandemic.”