Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, has directed members of the state executive council, to henceforth, send their expenditure to the Nasarawa State Bureau for Public Procurement, for vetting. He gave the directive during the monthly state executive council meeting, which held at the Government House, on Monday. The Governor directed that all items requiring expenditure, will have to go to the BPP in time, to save time in doing government business. Sule disclosed that, in most cases, when commissioners send items requiring expenditure, he still has to send such to the BPP for vetting, stressing that there is need for members of the council to save time by sending such items directly to the BPP. He emphasized that, this has become necessary for the state to keep in line with the State’s Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability (SIFTAS), Programme-for-Results (PforR). He further disclosed that the state BPP has commenced training on procurement process, holding in Akwanga, adding that it has become necessary for members of the state executive council, to understand the process of ensuring that they send items requiring expenditure to the BPP in time. Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, has directed members of the state executive council, to henceforth, send their expenditure to the Nasarawa State Bureau for Public Procurement, for vetting. He gave the directive during the monthly state executive council meeting, which held at the Government House, on Monday. The Governor directed that all items requiring expenditure, will have to go to the BPP in time, to save time in doing government business. Sule disclosed that, in most cases, when commissioners send items requiring expenditure, he still has to send such to the BPP for vetting, stressing that there is need for members of the council to save time by sending such items directly to the BPP. He emphasized that, this has become necessary for the state to keep in line with the State’s Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability (SIFTAS), Programme-for-Results (PforR). He further disclosed that the state BPP has commenced training on procurement process, holding in Akwanga, adding that it has become necessary for members of the state executive council, to understand the process of ensuring that they send items requiring expenditure to the BPP in time.