Wema Bank has shortlisted ten finalists to participate in the Boot Camp for its 2020 Hackaholics (2.0) Accelerator Programme slated for November 16 to December 11, 2020. The finalists pooled from over five hundred applications were revealed during the virtual two-day pitch programme held at the weekend. Managing Director, Wema Bank, Mr. Ademola Adebise, commended the start-ups for their efforts and willingness to contribute to the growth of Nigerian society. He said, “We are very proud to create a platform where businesses can have access to diverse resources that can enable them to provide solutions to prevailing everyday challenges. “This is born out of our aspiration to continually create innovative solutions that can help us as a bank as well as our environment and the country at large. “In its second year, we are very excited to have started an initiative focused on creating commercialisation opportunities for participating businesses by leveraging top-notch resources needed to give their solutions a competitive edge in the market.” Wema Bank has shortlisted ten finalists to participate in the Boot Camp for its 2020 Hackaholics (2.0) Accelerator Programme slated for November 16 to December 11, 2020. The finalists pooled from over five hundred applications were revealed during the virtual two-day pitch programme held at the weekend. Managing Director, Wema Bank, Mr. Ademola Adebise, commended the start-ups for their efforts and willingness to contribute to the growth of Nigerian society. He said, “We are very proud to create a platform where businesses can have access to diverse resources that can enable them to provide solutions to prevailing everyday challenges. “This is born out of our aspiration to continually create innovative solutions that can help us as a bank as well as our environment and the country at large. “In its second year, we are very excited to have started an initiative focused on creating commercialisation opportunities for participating businesses by leveraging top-notch resources needed to give their solutions a competitive edge in the market.”