The President of the Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Prince Tony Iju Nwabunike, on Wednesday, recounted how he and several others escaped when hoodlums invaded the association’s secretariat in Lagos. Prince Nwabunike, w ho was answering questions on the attack on the office, said hoodlums numbering over 40 invaded the national secretariat of the association wielding guns, machetes and charms on October 6, 2020, at about 10:00am. He said the invaders robbed and destroyed the association’s property and searched for him and other members of the National Executive Committee (NECOM) of ANLCA. He said fortunately most of the national officers who he said the hoodlums wanted to physically attack were not in the building during the raid which he added lasted for over 30 minutes before the intervention of police officers from FESTAC Police Station. Prince Nwabunike explained that, “To say that we the NECOM members escaped death is stating the obvious because the attackers were out for our lives. On sighting the police, most of them fled while nine members of the gang were arrested with guns, charms and other harmful objects. “In their struggle and resistance against lawful arrest, the hoodlums injured a police officer, Sergeant Abadariki F., who was hospitalised after the incident.” The Lagos police spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, who confirmed the attack, said nine suspects were arrested and that they had been charged to court.  The President of the Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Prince Tony Iju Nwabunike, on Wednesday, recounted how he and several others escaped when hoodlums invaded the association’s secretariat in Lagos. Prince Nwabunike, w ho was answering questions on the attack on the office, said hoodlums numbering over 40 invaded the national secretariat of the association wielding guns, machetes and charms on October 6, 2020, at about 10:00am. He said the invaders robbed and destroyed the association’s property and searched for him and other members of the National Executive Committee (NECOM) of ANLCA. He said fortunately most of the national officers who he said the hoodlums wanted to physically attack were not in the building during the raid which he added lasted for over 30 minutes before the intervention of police officers from FESTAC Police Station. Prince Nwabunike explained that, “To say that we the NECOM members escaped death is stating the obvious because the attackers were out for our lives. On sighting the police, most of them fled while nine members of the gang were arrested with guns, charms and other harmful objects. “In their struggle and resistance against lawful arrest, the hoodlums injured a police officer, Sergeant Abadariki F., who was hospitalised after the incident.” The Lagos police spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, who confirmed the attack, said nine suspects were arrested and that they had been charged to court. 