The Executive Director of the Ogun State Agency for the Control of AIDS (OGUNSACA), Dr Kehinde Fatugase, said the agency plans to launch a self-testing kit for HIV/AIDS in December. He disclosed this in Abeokuta at a press conference on the 2020 World AIDS Day, with the theme: United to End AIDS in the Midst of COVID-19. Fatugase explained that the move was meant to ensure that a large number of people have access to HIV testing, which, according to him, would aid the fight against the scourge. According to him, drugs for the treatment of the virus are free and available in the state. While lamenting that no disease has lasted three decades like HIV, the executive director called for more global efforts towards combating it. “No disease in the human race has lasted more than three decades like this. That’s why we are talking about global collaboration to confront it. “We don’t want to lose our guard. We don’t want COVID-19 to overshadow our campaign against HIV/AIDS. “Efforts are on and the battle has not been won,” he said. In her address, the Commissioner for Health, Dr Tomi Coker, disclosed that 20, 827 patients had been placed on Antiretroviral Treatment (ART) to keep HIV under control. The commissioner, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Hospital Management Board, Dr Nafiu Aigoro, said Ogun had a prevalence rate of 1.6 per cent, placing the state top on the ladder in South-west.  The Executive Director of the Ogun State Agency for the Control of AIDS (OGUNSACA), Dr Kehinde Fatugase, said the agency plans to launch a self-testing kit for HIV/AIDS in December. He disclosed this in Abeokuta at a press conference on the 2020 World AIDS Day, with the theme: United to End AIDS in the Midst of COVID-19. Fatugase explained that the move was meant to ensure that a large number of people have access to HIV testing, which, according to him, would aid the fight against the scourge. According to him, drugs for the treatment of the virus are free and available in the state. While lamenting that no disease has lasted three decades like HIV, the executive director called for more global efforts towards combating it. “No disease in the human race has lasted more than three decades like this. That’s why we are talking about global collaboration to confront it. “We don’t want to lose our guard. We don’t want COVID-19 to overshadow our campaign against HIV/AIDS. “Efforts are on and the battle has not been won,” he said. In her address, the Commissioner for Health, Dr Tomi Coker, disclosed that 20, 827 patients had been placed on Antiretroviral Treatment (ART) to keep HIV under control. The commissioner, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Hospital Management Board, Dr Nafiu Aigoro, said Ogun had a prevalence rate of 1.6 per cent, placing the state top on the ladder in South-west. 