The Nasarawa State governor, Abdullahi Sule, has explained the reason behind the setting up of many committees since the inception of his administration, stressing that it is vital to seek the views and experiences of people, especially in a democracy. Gov. Sule stated this while inaugurating two new committees at the Government House, Lafia. While noting that building a formidable structure took time and perseverance, the governor said in a democracy such as being practised in the country, it was important to listen to more people. He said, “It’s important that whenever something happens people criticise so that you can make corrections there. We never take offense from criticism.” The governor noted that some of the committees were beginning to bear fruits, serving as shining examples for even the federal government to emulate. He recalled that in order to avoid Irrevocable Standing Payment Order (ISPO), where money is deducted at source by the Accountant General of the Federation, a committee was put in place that saw to the establishment of the Nasarawa State Investment Development Agency. He added that his administration was presently in the process of establishing a company to handle all future transactions regarding infrastructural development. The Nasarawa State governor, Abdullahi Sule, has explained the reason behind the setting up of many committees since the inception of his administration, stressing that it is vital to seek the views and experiences of people, especially in a democracy. Gov. Sule stated this while inaugurating two new committees at the Government House, Lafia. While noting that building a formidable structure took time and perseverance, the governor said in a democracy such as being practised in the country, it was important to listen to more people. He said, “It’s important that whenever something happens people criticise so that you can make corrections there. We never take offense from criticism.” The governor noted that some of the committees were beginning to bear fruits, serving as shining examples for even the federal government to emulate. He recalled that in order to avoid Irrevocable Standing Payment Order (ISPO), where money is deducted at source by the Accountant General of the Federation, a committee was put in place that saw to the establishment of the Nasarawa State Investment Development Agency. He added that his administration was presently in the process of establishing a company to handle all future transactions regarding infrastructural development.