The Executive Director of OES Energy Services Limited, Chief Adegboyega Adegoke, has advised the government at all levels to pay attention to genuine diversification processes. Chief Adegoke said with the poor patronage of the oil sector in the international market, the government could boost the economy in the areas of tourism and hospitality which had been neglected over the years. He also implored the government to show more commitment into improving the sector to tap inherent benefits from it. Adegoke who made the call during the commissioning of his new hospitality edifice, Channel 8 Premium Hotel, Bodija, Ibadan, said hospitality and tourism was a goldmine waiting to be tapped and noted that it was high time for government to diversify from petroleum to hospitality and tourism, which he added, was the sole source of the economies of some great nations. He said, “The commissioning of this hospitality edifice is a demonstration of what we are preaching. I am into oil and gas, but this is to demonstrate that we are serious about diversification; and that’s what we are doing today. “So, the government at all levels should explore all the potentials in hospitality and tourism for economic development and growth. “Hospitality and tourism is a multifaceted and multidimensional activity. It is not just about fun; it is business, and the government should look at the business aspect. It makes more money than most other industries.” The Executive Director of OES Energy Services Limited, Chief Adegboyega Adegoke, has advised the government at all levels to pay attention to genuine diversification processes. Chief Adegoke said with the poor patronage of the oil sector in the international market, the government could boost the economy in the areas of tourism and hospitality which had been neglected over the years. He also implored the government to show more commitment into improving the sector to tap inherent benefits from it. Adegoke who made the call during the commissioning of his new hospitality edifice, Channel 8 Premium Hotel, Bodija, Ibadan, said hospitality and tourism was a goldmine waiting to be tapped and noted that it was high time for government to diversify from petroleum to hospitality and tourism, which he added, was the sole source of the economies of some great nations. He said, “The commissioning of this hospitality edifice is a demonstration of what we are preaching. I am into oil and gas, but this is to demonstrate that we are serious about diversification; and that’s what we are doing today. “So, the government at all levels should explore all the potentials in hospitality and tourism for economic development and growth. “Hospitality and tourism is a multifaceted and multidimensional activity. It is not just about fun; it is business, and the government should look at the business aspect. It makes more money than most other industries.”