Globacom has unveiled a 10 gigabyte data gift for subscribers upgrading from 3G SIMs to 4G SIMs in a bid to experience a faster 4G LTE network on the Glo network. Globacom, in a statement on Tuesday, stated that 25 per cent extra data on subsequent data purchases, ranging between N500 and N5000 for the next 6 months and a one-off 10 GB free data await subscribers who successfully upgrade from 3G SIM to 4G SIM. According to Globacom, “The validity of the 25 percent extra data will be determined by the data bundle purchased by the customer, while the 10 GB free data will be valid for 7 days.” The company explained that the SIM swap can be done by Glo subscribers at designated SIM Swap outlets, as well as at Gloworld and Glozone across the country. It also stated that subscribers’ tariff plans will not be affected by the upgrade; rather, they will enjoy all benefits due to 4G SIM upgrade as well as the benefits of their preferred tariff profile. In October 2016, Globacom launched its 4G LTE network nationwide and has, so far, extended the network to every nook and cranny of Nigeria. Globacom has unveiled a 10 gigabyte data gift for subscribers upgrading from 3G SIMs to 4G SIMs in a bid to experience a faster 4G LTE network on the Glo network. Globacom, in a statement on Tuesday, stated that 25 per cent extra data on subsequent data purchases, ranging between N500 and N5000 for the next 6 months and a one-off 10 GB free data await subscribers who successfully upgrade from 3G SIM to 4G SIM. According to Globacom, “The validity of the 25 percent extra data will be determined by the data bundle purchased by the customer, while the 10 GB free data will be valid for 7 days.” The company explained that the SIM swap can be done by Glo subscribers at designated SIM Swap outlets, as well as at Gloworld and Glozone across the country. It also stated that subscribers’ tariff plans will not be affected by the upgrade; rather, they will enjoy all benefits due to 4G SIM upgrade as well as the benefits of their preferred tariff profile. In October 2016, Globacom launched its 4G LTE network nationwide and has, so far, extended the network to every nook and cranny of Nigeria.