A prosecutor, Barrister A. A. Tanko, has urged a Grade 1 Area Court sitting in Gwagwalada, Abuja, to revoke the bail granted to a businessman, Yakubu Ibrahim, in a case of criminal breach of trust and cheating for failure to appear in court when the case came up for hearing. The prosecutor who filed an application also urged the court to issue a notice of service to the accused on why he failed to fulfil the bail bond he signed. Ibrahim was earlier arraigned before the court for alleged criminal breach of trust and cheating contrary to section 312 and 322 of the penal code law. During the arraignment, the prosecutor told the court that the accused, sometime in 2017, collected the sum of N450,000 from Yakubu Glory Joshua, to supply him a car. He said the accused neither supplied the car nor returned the money collected from the complainant. The judge, Adamu Isah, granted the accused  bail after he denied the allegations levelled against him, while the accused failed to appear in court when the matter came up for hearing yesterday.  A prosecutor, Barrister A. A. Tanko, has urged a Grade 1 Area Court sitting in Gwagwalada, Abuja, to revoke the bail granted to a businessman, Yakubu Ibrahim, in a case of criminal breach of trust and cheating for failure to appear in court when the case came up for hearing. The prosecutor who filed an application also urged the court to issue a notice of service to the accused on why he failed to fulfil the bail bond he signed. Ibrahim was earlier arraigned before the court for alleged criminal breach of trust and cheating contrary to section 312 and 322 of the penal code law. During the arraignment, the prosecutor told the court that the accused, sometime in 2017, collected the sum of N450,000 from Yakubu Glory Joshua, to supply him a car. He said the accused neither supplied the car nor returned the money collected from the complainant. The judge, Adamu Isah, granted the accused  bail after he denied the allegations levelled against him, while the accused failed to appear in court when the matter came up for hearing yesterday. 