State chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the North West have expressed their unflinching support and confidence in the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). The North West APC Chairmen’s Forum also backed the committee on the new membership registration. Chairman of the Forum, Isa Sadiq Acida in a statement on Thursday commended the committee’s efforts at repositioning the party. “We are particularly pleased to note the committee’s strides in reconciling the various interest groups in the party and its commitment to ensure adequate compensation for party supporters, who have continued to toil for its success. “We are equally aware of the committee’s desire to produce an authentic national membership register for the party. “We therefore wish to call on all well meaning members of the party to support the National Caretaker Committee, in order to place the APC on a sound footing for continued electoral success at all levels, now and in the foreseeable future,” the party said. State chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the North West have expressed their unflinching support and confidence in the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). The North West APC Chairmen’s Forum also backed the committee on the new membership registration. Chairman of the Forum, Isa Sadiq Acida in a statement on Thursday commended the committee’s efforts at repositioning the party. “We are particularly pleased to note the committee’s strides in reconciling the various interest groups in the party and its commitment to ensure adequate compensation for party supporters, who have continued to toil for its success. “We are equally aware of the committee’s desire to produce an authentic national membership register for the party. “We therefore wish to call on all well meaning members of the party to support the National Caretaker Committee, in order to place the APC on a sound footing for continued electoral success at all levels, now and in the foreseeable future,” the party said.