Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC has urged Nigerians to maximise savings and investment opportunities available to them as business conditions steadily improve across the country. The foremost financial institution also advised customers to be deliberate in achieving their savings and investment goals in order to access rewarding returns. While quoting the recent Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) report released by the bank, Wole Adeniyi, Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC, said the moderate improvement of business activities after the easing of restrictions related to the coronavirus would enable income earners to confidently achieve their savings and investments targets. “Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC, being customer-centric, appreciates the benefits of savings and investments. Our responsibility extends to being ahead of every situation to provide enabling platforms for our customers,” he stated. He noted that the financial institution is deliberate about delivering flexible products that suited the needs of customers. He cited the Stanbic IBTC Max Yield Savings Account with which customers can enjoy higher yields on savings. “These are unprecedented times and customers deserve to get better returns on their savings. This is a high interest paying account with invested funds available and accessible to account holders,” Adeniyi said. “Students, artisans, salary account holders or self-employed individuals and Max Yield Savings Account holders can enjoy third party withdrawal using cheques, internet and mobile banking access, free withdrawal access, among other benefits,” he added.  Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC has urged Nigerians to maximise savings and investment opportunities available to them as business conditions steadily improve across the country. The foremost financial institution also advised customers to be deliberate in achieving their savings and investment goals in order to access rewarding returns. While quoting the recent Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) report released by the bank, Wole Adeniyi, Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC, said the moderate improvement of business activities after the easing of restrictions related to the coronavirus would enable income earners to confidently achieve their savings and investments targets. “Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC, being customer-centric, appreciates the benefits of savings and investments. Our responsibility extends to being ahead of every situation to provide enabling platforms for our customers,” he stated. He noted that the financial institution is deliberate about delivering flexible products that suited the needs of customers. He cited the Stanbic IBTC Max Yield Savings Account with which customers can enjoy higher yields on savings. “These are unprecedented times and customers deserve to get better returns on their savings. This is a high interest paying account with invested funds available and accessible to account holders,” Adeniyi said. “Students, artisans, salary account holders or self-employed individuals and Max Yield Savings Account holders can enjoy third party withdrawal using cheques, internet and mobile banking access, free withdrawal access, among other benefits,” he added. 