Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki on Thursday, described himself as a vessel in the redefinition of the country’s democracy. He stated this in Benin shortly after taking the oath of office for his second term, saying he will use his second tenure to develop a 30-year master plan for the development of the state. “My administration will set a target of ensuring a defined template for development and growth in the state up till 2050. “We have set the modalities for a 30-year development plan to provide the government with necessary tools, guidelines and milestones for development planning. “I see myself as a vessel in the redefinition of democracy in Nigeria but I am not unaware that this places enormous responsibility on me,” he said. He said his victory, aside from restoring hope in democracy as a form of participatory government, has also offered an opportunity to bridge the gap between a challenged past and a promising future. “Together, as a people propelled by a common zeal in pursuit of progress and advancement, there is nothing that we cannot overcome if we have a consensus on how to move our state forward. What we need is what I call a unity template, with which to overcome our challenges,” he said. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari, represented by the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, at the event for upholding the constitution and allowing the will of the people to prevail in his reelection.  Other dignitaries at the event were, Sokoto State Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Bayelsa State Governor Duoye Diri and PDP National Chairman Uche Secondus, among others.  Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki on Thursday, described himself as a vessel in the redefinition of the country’s democracy. He stated this in Benin shortly after taking the oath of office for his second term, saying he will use his second tenure to develop a 30-year master plan for the development of the state. “My administration will set a target of ensuring a defined template for development and growth in the state up till 2050. “We have set the modalities for a 30-year development plan to provide the government with necessary tools, guidelines and milestones for development planning. “I see myself as a vessel in the redefinition of democracy in Nigeria but I am not unaware that this places enormous responsibility on me,” he said. He said his victory, aside from restoring hope in democracy as a form of participatory government, has also offered an opportunity to bridge the gap between a challenged past and a promising future. “Together, as a people propelled by a common zeal in pursuit of progress and advancement, there is nothing that we cannot overcome if we have a consensus on how to move our state forward. What we need is what I call a unity template, with which to overcome our challenges,” he said. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari, represented by the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, at the event for upholding the constitution and allowing the will of the people to prevail in his reelection.  Other dignitaries at the event were, Sokoto State Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Bayelsa State Governor Duoye Diri and PDP National Chairman Uche Secondus, among others. 