Sokoto State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has tackled the chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Alhaji Isa Sadiq Achida, over his comment on the performance of the state governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal. Achida, while speaking to Daily Trust on the proposed 342 housing estate announced by Tambuwal, said the governor was only playing to the gallery. He alleged that there was not a single project completed by Tambuwal since he took over the affairs of the state in 2015. Reacting, the Publicity Secretary of PDP, Abdullahi Yusuf Hausawa, described the allegation as laughable. “But it is not surprising because it is a known fact that ever since their defeat at the governorship election in 2019 by the mighty 342 votes, the mere mention of the number always runs them mad. “The claim by the APC chairman that none of Governor Tambuwal’s projects has been completed, including the secondary school in Balle, is laughable because it shows that the chairman is yet to regain his sense after being inflicted with 342 dementia,” PDP said. The party reeled out some of the achievements of Tambuwal, including the construction of 60 offices and a library complex at Sokoto State University resulting in the accreditation of most of its courses. Sokoto State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has tackled the chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Alhaji Isa Sadiq Achida, over his comment on the performance of the state governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal. Achida, while speaking to Daily Trust on the proposed 342 housing estate announced by Tambuwal, said the governor was only playing to the gallery. He alleged that there was not a single project completed by Tambuwal since he took over the affairs of the state in 2015. Reacting, the Publicity Secretary of PDP, Abdullahi Yusuf Hausawa, described the allegation as laughable. “But it is not surprising because it is a known fact that ever since their defeat at the governorship election in 2019 by the mighty 342 votes, the mere mention of the number always runs them mad. “The claim by the APC chairman that none of Governor Tambuwal’s projects has been completed, including the secondary school in Balle, is laughable because it shows that the chairman is yet to regain his sense after being inflicted with 342 dementia,” PDP said. The party reeled out some of the achievements of Tambuwal, including the construction of 60 offices and a library complex at Sokoto State University resulting in the accreditation of most of its courses.