A housewife, Munirat Obaro, has urged a Grade 1 Area Court sitting in Gwagwalada to dissolve her 17-year-old marriage with her husband, Abdullaziz Mohammed,  who she accused of being a drunk. Munirat, a mother of four, who resides at Anguwar Shani, also accused her husband of beating her regularly and threatening her life. The respondent, Mohammed, denied the allegations against him, saying, “there is no truth in all that my wife said, though I am ready to change whatever lapses she might have found in me.” The judge, Justice Adamu Isah, said the evidence tendered by the petitioner was inadmissible, adding that the claims by the petitioner were bound to fail and so declined to dissolve the marriage. Justice Isah held that, “On the issue of threat to life, neither the prosecution witness (PW1) nor PW 2 or PW 3 were able to tell this court how the life of the petitioner was endangered by the respondent either in words or by actions. “On the issue of frequent beating…none of the witnesses is able to say the petitioner was beaten on a particular date or time in his or her presence.” Justice Isah, therefore, said the evidence tendered by the petitioner were inadmissible and so dismissed her claims and refused to dissolve the marriage. He maintained that both parties should remain as husband and wife.  A housewife, Munirat Obaro, has urged a Grade 1 Area Court sitting in Gwagwalada to dissolve her 17-year-old marriage with her husband, Abdullaziz Mohammed,  who she accused of being a drunk. Munirat, a mother of four, who resides at Anguwar Shani, also accused her husband of beating her regularly and threatening her life. The respondent, Mohammed, denied the allegations against him, saying, “there is no truth in all that my wife said, though I am ready to change whatever lapses she might have found in me.” The judge, Justice Adamu Isah, said the evidence tendered by the petitioner was inadmissible, adding that the claims by the petitioner were bound to fail and so declined to dissolve the marriage. Justice Isah held that, “On the issue of threat to life, neither the prosecution witness (PW1) nor PW 2 or PW 3 were able to tell this court how the life of the petitioner was endangered by the respondent either in words or by actions. “On the issue of frequent beating…none of the witnesses is able to say the petitioner was beaten on a particular date or time in his or her presence.” Justice Isah, therefore, said the evidence tendered by the petitioner were inadmissible and so dismissed her claims and refused to dissolve the marriage. He maintained that both parties should remain as husband and wife. 