Senator Gabriel Suswam (PDP, Benue North-east) has called for the emergence of a youth governor to succeed Governor Samuel Ortom in 2023. Suswam spoke in Tse-Agberagba, Konshisha Local Government Area of the state during a reception in his honour organised by a group known as Zone A Decision for Suswam. The ex-governor of Benue State posited that the future of the youths would be doomed if they allowed a ‘grandfather’ to become their governor in 2023. He added that a young person would understand current trends and challenges in governance and be able to also cope with the stress associated with the office of governor. Suswam acknowledged the youths of Konshisha Zone A and Benue State in general for their support, saying he would collaborate with Governor Ortom to ensure they get their fair share in the allocation of resources. On his part, Governor Ortom noted that Suswam and other leaders were working together to make the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stronger to be able to win all elections in 2023. He emphasised that under his leadership, those aspiring for governor under the PDP would be encouraged to go about their ambition peacefully and in unity, saying a level playing field would be provided for aspirants and the Benue people would decide who governs them.  Senator Gabriel Suswam (PDP, Benue North-east) has called for the emergence of a youth governor to succeed Governor Samuel Ortom in 2023. Suswam spoke in Tse-Agberagba, Konshisha Local Government Area of the state during a reception in his honour organised by a group known as Zone A Decision for Suswam. The ex-governor of Benue State posited that the future of the youths would be doomed if they allowed a ‘grandfather’ to become their governor in 2023. He added that a young person would understand current trends and challenges in governance and be able to also cope with the stress associated with the office of governor. Suswam acknowledged the youths of Konshisha Zone A and Benue State in general for their support, saying he would collaborate with Governor Ortom to ensure they get their fair share in the allocation of resources. On his part, Governor Ortom noted that Suswam and other leaders were working together to make the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stronger to be able to win all elections in 2023. He emphasised that under his leadership, those aspiring for governor under the PDP would be encouraged to go about their ambition peacefully and in unity, saying a level playing field would be provided for aspirants and the Benue people would decide who governs them. 