Another legal twist has been introduced into the December 5 Lagos East senatorial by-election as the state chapter of APC, on Monday, dragged the candidate of the PDP in the election, Mr. Babatunde Gbadamosi, before a Federal High Court, Ikoyi over alleged perjury and falsification of certificates. APC through its counsel, Mr. Kemi Pinheiro (SAN) and Mr. Kemi Balogun (SAN), is asking the court to disqualify Gbadamosi from contesting in the by-election. In the suit No: FHC/L/CS/1659/2020, APC averred that it studied the West African Examination Council (WAEC) certificate which Gbadamosi submitted to INEC in comparison with his certificate obtained from the official website of WAEC. This is coming after the PDP candidate had also sued the APC candidate, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, seeking his disqualification over alleged double registration. Gbadamosi however dismissed the claims of APC, describing the suit as an act of desperation even as he said he has not been served. APC in its writs of summons, claimed that it discovered certain discrepancies in the certificates which, it said, were indicative of the fact that the WAEC certificate Gbadamosi submitted to INEC might have been falsified. Hearing in the case had not been fixed at the time of filing this report. But speaking with Daily Trust, Gbadamosi dismissed the allegations, saying the suit was to divert attention from the suit he filed against the APC candidate.He said APC was a party of liars desperate to hold on to power by all means. Another legal twist has been introduced into the December 5 Lagos East senatorial by-election as the state chapter of APC, on Monday, dragged the candidate of the PDP in the election, Mr. Babatunde Gbadamosi, before a Federal High Court, Ikoyi over alleged perjury and falsification of certificates. APC through its counsel, Mr. Kemi Pinheiro (SAN) and Mr. Kemi Balogun (SAN), is asking the court to disqualify Gbadamosi from contesting in the by-election. In the suit No: FHC/L/CS/1659/2020, APC averred that it studied the West African Examination Council (WAEC) certificate which Gbadamosi submitted to INEC in comparison with his certificate obtained from the official website of WAEC. This is coming after the PDP candidate had also sued the APC candidate, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, seeking his disqualification over alleged double registration. Gbadamosi however dismissed the claims of APC, describing the suit as an act of desperation even as he said he has not been served. APC in its writs of summons, claimed that it discovered certain discrepancies in the certificates which, it said, were indicative of the fact that the WAEC certificate Gbadamosi submitted to INEC might have been falsified. Hearing in the case had not been fixed at the time of filing this report. But speaking with Daily Trust, Gbadamosi dismissed the allegations, saying the suit was to divert attention from the suit he filed against the APC candidate.He said APC was a party of liars desperate to hold on to power by all means.