Tired of doing the wrong things, a Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) council ward deputy leader in Gboko Local Government Area of Benue State, Sunday Ortseagh, said he turned a new leaf to earn legitimate income from provision business. Ortseagh in an interview said it was in 2016 when he began the journey for a better life following a systematic savings lifestyle. He said his shop at Ubangaji in Gboko had helped him come to terms with what people meant by, “There is dignity in labour.” Though, yet to achieve his aim of becoming a wholesaler, Ortseagh remains thankful to God that he could meet his family needs through the small scale business. Before now, he explained to our correspondent that he had been tagged as a party thug for years, but listening to Governor Samuel Ortom who regularly preaches against thug life, he then resolved to quit the lifestyle. He narrated that when he was a thug, he lavished money on whatever he wanted because such funds were gotten from political gatherings. “But, when I realised that I could not continue the lifestyle as there was no future in it, I, first of all, ceased from eating outside my home, stopped drinking beer, then reduced my family’s feeding from three times to two times per day so as to save money for a business that will take me away from thug life,” he said. Ortseagh further explained that, to enable him to save more money, he surrendered his life to Jesus Christ and cut down on his expenses. After two years, he raised enough capital and settled for the provision business. “When I resolved for the provision business, I did a feasibility study and realised that, provision store business seemed to be one of the easiest business to start, I looked around my area and see people who were selling provisions under umbrella, kiosk, wheelbarrow, then I decided to begin mine in a shop. “I began the small business and remained consistent in growing it by displaying all my items in such a manner that will attract buyers’ attention. “Almost every home around Ubangaji makes use of one item or another on a daily basis, ranging from toiletries, beverages, snacks among others and these could be found in my shop. “I know that if my shop looks shabby and disorganised it will welcome only a few people that wont mind as my customers. I had to ensure a standard that included neatness among others and that attracted the sophisticated calibre of customers who patronise my business,” he explained. Nevertheless, Ortseagh wants financial help to expand his business because sometimes his customers are disappointed that they could not get the quantity of stock desired. He said that his winning strategy also includes the reduction of price in some items for customers who asked him to do so and using another item in the shop to make up for the deduction. Ortseagh who was recently elected deputy chairman of his party at the ward level concluded that he now has a decent source of livelihood while participating in political activities as his civic duty. Tired of doing the wrong things, a Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) council ward deputy leader in Gboko Local Government Area of Benue State, Sunday Ortseagh, said he turned a new leaf to earn legitimate income from provision business. Ortseagh in an interview said it was in 2016 when he began the journey for a better life following a systematic savings lifestyle. He said his shop at Ubangaji in Gboko had helped him come to terms with what people meant by, “There is dignity in labour.” Though, yet to achieve his aim of becoming a wholesaler, Ortseagh remains thankful to God that he could meet his family needs through the small scale business. Before now, he explained to our correspondent that he had been tagged as a party thug for years, but listening to Governor Samuel Ortom who regularly preaches against thug life, he then resolved to quit the lifestyle. He narrated that when he was a thug, he lavished money on whatever he wanted because such funds were gotten from political gatherings. “But, when I realised that I could not continue the lifestyle as there was no future in it, I, first of all, ceased from eating outside my home, stopped drinking beer, then reduced my family’s feeding from three times to two times per day so as to save money for a business that will take me away from thug life,” he said. Ortseagh further explained that, to enable him to save more money, he surrendered his life to Jesus Christ and cut down on his expenses. After two years, he raised enough capital and settled for the provision business. “When I resolved for the provision business, I did a feasibility study and realised that, provision store business seemed to be one of the easiest business to start, I looked around my area and see people who were selling provisions under umbrella, kiosk, wheelbarrow, then I decided to begin mine in a shop. “I began the small business and remained consistent in growing it by displaying all my items in such a manner that will attract buyers’ attention. “Almost every home around Ubangaji makes use of one item or another on a daily basis, ranging from toiletries, beverages, snacks among others and these could be found in my shop. “I know that if my shop looks shabby and disorganised it will welcome only a few people that wont mind as my customers. I had to ensure a standard that included neatness among others and that attracted the sophisticated calibre of customers who patronise my business,” he explained. Nevertheless, Ortseagh wants financial help to expand his business because sometimes his customers are disappointed that they could not get the quantity of stock desired. He said that his winning strategy also includes the reduction of price in some items for customers who asked him to do so and using another item in the shop to make up for the deduction. Ortseagh who was recently elected deputy chairman of his party at the ward level concluded that he now has a decent source of livelihood while participating in political activities as his civic duty.