Residents of Rubochi community in Kuje Area council were thrown into confusion as an elderly man, Mai Kasuwa Chachawa and his wife, Safiya Maikasuwa, died on the same day. A resident of the area, Kaura Ezekiel, said the incident happened last Thursday evening. He said the elderly man went to plant yam when he suddenly slumped and died, adding that some members of the family later traced him to the farm and discovered his corpse. According to him, the wife of the deceased slumped immediately she saw the corpse of her husband. “Upon sighting the corpse of her husband, she slumped and died instantly,” he said. He said the neighbours poured water on the deceased woman in order to revive her, but to no avail. She was then taken to a hospital where she was confirmed dead. He added “In fact, the man and his wife were hale and hearty before the incident. There was no sign of injury on his body.” The traditional ruler of Rubochi, Alhaji Ibrahim Mohammed Pada, expressed shock and sadness over the incident. He said the chiefdom was saddened by the demise of the elderly couple and prayed for their souls to rest in peace. Residents of Rubochi community in Kuje Area council were thrown into confusion as an elderly man, Mai Kasuwa Chachawa and his wife, Safiya Maikasuwa, died on the same day. A resident of the area, Kaura Ezekiel, said the incident happened last Thursday evening. He said the elderly man went to plant yam when he suddenly slumped and died, adding that some members of the family later traced him to the farm and discovered his corpse. According to him, the wife of the deceased slumped immediately she saw the corpse of her husband. “Upon sighting the corpse of her husband, she slumped and died instantly,” he said. He said the neighbours poured water on the deceased woman in order to revive her, but to no avail. She was then taken to a hospital where she was confirmed dead. He added “In fact, the man and his wife were hale and hearty before the incident. There was no sign of injury on his body.” The traditional ruler of Rubochi, Alhaji Ibrahim Mohammed Pada, expressed shock and sadness over the incident. He said the chiefdom was saddened by the demise of the elderly couple and prayed for their souls to rest in peace.