National  Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Uche  Secondus and Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the  party, Senator Walid Jibrin, have charged members  of the party in Anambra State  to be united in the forthcoming governorship election  to capture the state. The duo, who spoke at a  grand reception organised by the Anambra Central Senatorial District of party executive in honour of the state chairman, Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu, held in Awka at  the weekend. They also urged ward leaders to use their influence as grassroots mobilizers to brace for the forthcoming gubernatorial election slated for 2021. Secondus, represented by the National Youth Leader of PDP, Hon. Sunday Udeh-Okoye, said there was only one party chairman in the state led by Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu. According to him, Anambra PDP members must be united and join hands with the Nwobu-led executive in organising credible primary that would be accepted by the aspirants to secure the governorship seat in the state. “If you are united as one family and put party interest above individual interests, the party will produce the next governor in the state at the forthcoming gubernatorial election. Anambra is a PDP state and this is the time to take over what rightly belongs to us. “It is clear now that among all political parties in Nigeria, it is only the PDP that can take the state and the country to the Promised Land. “We must be united to deliver the party in 2021,” he said. Also speaking, the BoT Chairman Senator Walid Jibrin harped on the importance of party structures, noting that all hands must be on deck as next year’s gubernatorial election in the state will determine the future of the state. He called for massive grassroots mobilisation by the ward executives, noting that the landmark achievements of the past administration of Mr. Peter Obi was great hence the need for continuity. In his welcome address, the State Chairman, Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu, expressed satisfaction with the level of commitment by the state executive towards the unity of the party. He expressed hope that PDP would produce a governor who understands governance and cared for Anambra people and the growth of the state. Meanwhile, one of governorship aspirants on the platform of the PDP, Dr. Goodwin Maduka, has stated that his greatest joy was when youths are meaningfully engaged in the society. Maduka stated this while commissioning his foundation’s building complex, Dr Godwin Maduka Foundation in Awka, the state capital. National  Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Uche  Secondus and Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the  party, Senator Walid Jibrin, have charged members  of the party in Anambra State  to be united in the forthcoming governorship election  to capture the state. The duo, who spoke at a  grand reception organised by the Anambra Central Senatorial District of party executive in honour of the state chairman, Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu, held in Awka at  the weekend. They also urged ward leaders to use their influence as grassroots mobilizers to brace for the forthcoming gubernatorial election slated for 2021. Secondus, represented by the National Youth Leader of PDP, Hon. Sunday Udeh-Okoye, said there was only one party chairman in the state led by Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu. According to him, Anambra PDP members must be united and join hands with the Nwobu-led executive in organising credible primary that would be accepted by the aspirants to secure the governorship seat in the state. “If you are united as one family and put party interest above individual interests, the party will produce the next governor in the state at the forthcoming gubernatorial election. Anambra is a PDP state and this is the time to take over what rightly belongs to us. “It is clear now that among all political parties in Nigeria, it is only the PDP that can take the state and the country to the Promised Land. “We must be united to deliver the party in 2021,” he said. Also speaking, the BoT Chairman Senator Walid Jibrin harped on the importance of party structures, noting that all hands must be on deck as next year’s gubernatorial election in the state will determine the future of the state. He called for massive grassroots mobilisation by the ward executives, noting that the landmark achievements of the past administration of Mr. Peter Obi was great hence the need for continuity. In his welcome address, the State Chairman, Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu, expressed satisfaction with the level of commitment by the state executive towards the unity of the party. He expressed hope that PDP would produce a governor who understands governance and cared for Anambra people and the growth of the state. Meanwhile, one of governorship aspirants on the platform of the PDP, Dr. Goodwin Maduka, has stated that his greatest joy was when youths are meaningfully engaged in the society. Maduka stated this while commissioning his foundation’s building complex, Dr Godwin Maduka Foundation in Awka, the state capital.