Following the projection of Biden’s victory on Saturday after four days of painstaking vote counting, a number of republicans came out in support of Trump. Biden is said to have amassed more than the 270 US electoral college votes needed to clinch the presidency. President Trump has alleged Democratic party of electoral fraud of ballot irregularities even though no evidence presented yet. A number of Republicans have continued to voice their support for Trump. A Republican Marco Rubio said the issue of voter fraud should be examined in the courts. He Twitted: “The media can project an election winner, but they don’t get to decide if claims of broken election laws & irregularities are true. “That’s decided by the courts, and on the basis of clear evidence and the law.” Missouri Senator Josh Hawley also tweeted, saying the winner shouldn’t have been declared until the votes were able to be counted and recounted. Senator Lindsey Graham has also openly backed Trump with a donated of $500,000 towards the barrage of lawsuits the president has launched in battleground states. Following the projection of Biden’s victory on Saturday after four days of painstaking vote counting, a number of republicans came out in support of Trump. Biden is said to have amassed more than the 270 US electoral college votes needed to clinch the presidency. President Trump has alleged Democratic party of electoral fraud of ballot irregularities even though no evidence presented yet. A number of Republicans have continued to voice their support for Trump. A Republican Marco Rubio said the issue of voter fraud should be examined in the courts. He Twitted: “The media can project an election winner, but they don’t get to decide if claims of broken election laws & irregularities are true. “That’s decided by the courts, and on the basis of clear evidence and the law.” Missouri Senator Josh Hawley also tweeted, saying the winner shouldn’t have been declared until the votes were able to be counted and recounted. Senator Lindsey Graham has also openly backed Trump with a donated of $500,000 towards the barrage of lawsuits the president has launched in battleground states.