The Justice Development and Peace Initiative (JDPI) Catholic Diocese of Ekiti, has donated 20 irrigation machines to farmers in the 16 local government areas of Ekiti State. The JDPI said the gesture was aimed at enhancing the development of agriculture in the state. Speaking during the distribution, the Catholic Bishop, Most Rev. Felix Ajakaye, represented by the acting Vicar General of the Diocese, Very Rev. Fr. Benedict Bimbo, said the gesture was part of the activities of the diocese to stem the tide of hunger as the dry season gathers momentum. Bishop Ajakaye described agriculture as a very important means of fighting hunger in the country, noting that it was imperative for the diocese to enhance the sector. “The Catholic Church is boosting the agricultural sector since government alone could not actualize the Maputo Declaration which demands that African governments at all levels should set aside 10 percent of their annual spending for agriculture to make food available for the citizenry,” he said. The Director of the JDPI, Rev. Fr. Emmanuel Akingbade, advised the farmers to use the opportunity to empower themselves and also feed the larger society. The Justice Development and Peace Initiative (JDPI) Catholic Diocese of Ekiti, has donated 20 irrigation machines to farmers in the 16 local government areas of Ekiti State. The JDPI said the gesture was aimed at enhancing the development of agriculture in the state. Speaking during the distribution, the Catholic Bishop, Most Rev. Felix Ajakaye, represented by the acting Vicar General of the Diocese, Very Rev. Fr. Benedict Bimbo, said the gesture was part of the activities of the diocese to stem the tide of hunger as the dry season gathers momentum. Bishop Ajakaye described agriculture as a very important means of fighting hunger in the country, noting that it was imperative for the diocese to enhance the sector. “The Catholic Church is boosting the agricultural sector since government alone could not actualize the Maputo Declaration which demands that African governments at all levels should set aside 10 percent of their annual spending for agriculture to make food available for the citizenry,” he said. The Director of the JDPI, Rev. Fr. Emmanuel Akingbade, advised the farmers to use the opportunity to empower themselves and also feed the larger society.