The Nasarawa State Geographic Information Service (NAGIS) has generated N771 million from January to October 2020 despite the COVID-19 pandemic. The Director-General, Sonny Agassi, disclosed this during an assessment of its 2020 budget before the Nasarawa State House of Assembly Committee on Lands and Survey. He said, being a revenue-generating agency of government, they have already mapped out more strategies to generate more revenue for the state. He said the agency is mandated by its establishing law to process grants of statutory rights of occupancy and issue Certificate of Occupancy (C-of-O) among others. “I want to disclose to you that despite the outbreak of COVID-19, the agency has generated N771 million from January to date,” he said. Chairman, House Committee on Lands and member representing Karu-Gitata constituency, David Maiyaki, said the committee invited the agency to assess its 2020 budget performance. He advised the agency to always adhere to budgetary provisions and commended the DG and his management team for generating more revenue and called for the sustenance of the effort. The Nasarawa State Geographic Information Service (NAGIS) has generated N771 million from January to October 2020 despite the COVID-19 pandemic. The Director-General, Sonny Agassi, disclosed this during an assessment of its 2020 budget before the Nasarawa State House of Assembly Committee on Lands and Survey. He said, being a revenue-generating agency of government, they have already mapped out more strategies to generate more revenue for the state. He said the agency is mandated by its establishing law to process grants of statutory rights of occupancy and issue Certificate of Occupancy (C-of-O) among others. “I want to disclose to you that despite the outbreak of COVID-19, the agency has generated N771 million from January to date,” he said. Chairman, House Committee on Lands and member representing Karu-Gitata constituency, David Maiyaki, said the committee invited the agency to assess its 2020 budget performance. He advised the agency to always adhere to budgetary provisions and commended the DG and his management team for generating more revenue and called for the sustenance of the effort.