The Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), the aviation regulator said unremitted Ticket Sales Charge (TSC) and Cargo Sales Charge (CSC) have exceeded N10 billion. The TSC and CSC is the money collected by airlines and remitted to NCAA while it is shared among aviation agencies. According to sharing formula as contained in the Act, the NCAA takes 58 per cent of the money, the Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) gets 23 per cent; the Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NIMET) takes nine per cent; the Nigeria College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) gets seven per cent while the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) takes three per cent. The NCAA disclosed that it recently devised a platform in partnership with the bank to deduct the money directly from the airlines but most of the airlines refused to join the platform. The NCAA made the disclosures in a memorandum it submitted on the Bill for an Act to repeal the Civil Aviation Act 2006. As the National Assembly kicks off the process of amending the Civil Aviation Act 2006, NCAA said it proposed an adjustment in the sharing formula with NCAA and NAMA shedding 2% and 1% to AIB, the aviation accident and incident investigator. With this, the new TSC/CSC sharing formula may become thus: NCAA- 56% down from 58%; NAMA – 22% down from 23%; NiMET – 9%, unchanged; NCAT- 7% unchanged and AIB – 6% from 3%. “Further, the section makes it a criminal offence for any airline to collect and fail to remit the funds within a stipulated time,” the NCAA said in the memo. The Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), the aviation regulator said unremitted Ticket Sales Charge (TSC) and Cargo Sales Charge (CSC) have exceeded N10 billion. The TSC and CSC is the money collected by airlines and remitted to NCAA while it is shared among aviation agencies. According to sharing formula as contained in the Act, the NCAA takes 58 per cent of the money, the Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) gets 23 per cent; the Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NIMET) takes nine per cent; the Nigeria College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) gets seven per cent while the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) takes three per cent. The NCAA disclosed that it recently devised a platform in partnership with the bank to deduct the money directly from the airlines but most of the airlines refused to join the platform. The NCAA made the disclosures in a memorandum it submitted on the Bill for an Act to repeal the Civil Aviation Act 2006. As the National Assembly kicks off the process of amending the Civil Aviation Act 2006, NCAA said it proposed an adjustment in the sharing formula with NCAA and NAMA shedding 2% and 1% to AIB, the aviation accident and incident investigator. With this, the new TSC/CSC sharing formula may become thus: NCAA- 56% down from 58%; NAMA – 22% down from 23%; NiMET – 9%, unchanged; NCAT- 7% unchanged and AIB – 6% from 3%. “Further, the section makes it a criminal offence for any airline to collect and fail to remit the funds within a stipulated time,” the NCAA said in the memo.