Bayelsa State governor, Senator Douye Diri, has said it was the prayers of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye that aided his victory at the Supreme Court and his subsequent swearing-in as the governor of the state. Speaking during the annual state thanksgiving service on Monday, Diri said now that the election was over, it was time for everybody to join hands for the development of the state, irrespective of political affiliations. The governor said though he was still finding it difficult wearing the shoes left for him by the immediate past Governor Seriake Dickson, he would do his best for the development of the state. He said: “Pastor Adeboye is my religious leader. When I went to him during the great turn around, he asked me a question, when I replied, he said go, it is well with you but don’t forget God. That was even before the Supreme Court judgement, and afterwards, everything turned around for me and the people of Bayelsa. “As I’m talking, I’m still finding it difficult wearing the shows handed over to me by former Governor Dickson but with God, we will do our best for the people of the state. “As Bayelsans, we should be building bridges of unity and not burning our bridges, before APC and PDP, Bayelsa was there, and our two hands are open to every Bayelsan despite political affiliation because it’s time to build Bayelsa State. This is the time to bring ideas for the development of Bayelsa State,” he said. Bayelsa State governor, Senator Douye Diri, has said it was the prayers of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye that aided his victory at the Supreme Court and his subsequent swearing-in as the governor of the state. Speaking during the annual state thanksgiving service on Monday, Diri said now that the election was over, it was time for everybody to join hands for the development of the state, irrespective of political affiliations. The governor said though he was still finding it difficult wearing the shoes left for him by the immediate past Governor Seriake Dickson, he would do his best for the development of the state. He said: “Pastor Adeboye is my religious leader. When I went to him during the great turn around, he asked me a question, when I replied, he said go, it is well with you but don’t forget God. That was even before the Supreme Court judgement, and afterwards, everything turned around for me and the people of Bayelsa. “As I’m talking, I’m still finding it difficult wearing the shows handed over to me by former Governor Dickson but with God, we will do our best for the people of the state. “As Bayelsans, we should be building bridges of unity and not burning our bridges, before APC and PDP, Bayelsa was there, and our two hands are open to every Bayelsan despite political affiliation because it’s time to build Bayelsa State. This is the time to bring ideas for the development of Bayelsa State,” he said.