Choice International said it targets 300 brand shops in Nigeria for the GREE and Lontor products through a retail franchise partnership with prospective investors. Speaking at the launch of the franchise, the Chairman CIG Motors, Chief Diana Chen, said: “From inception in the year 2000, CIG Motors has actively explored the international market and has opened more than 20 brand shops in Nigeria in the last 18 months and now set to open an additional 300.” She said GREE leads in air conditioners, while Lontor is a renowned brand in household electrical appliances around the world. She said the process would require investors to secure a store space to join. “This requires the investor to simply secure a store size of 120-150sqm at any choice location, shopping mall, plazas, high streets and even residential neighbourhoods. Our Business Development partners, 3rdRetail Africa can assist with identifying a perfect location in all towns across Nigeria.” She said the  initial capital outlay is N20 million and it covers three years franchise fees, product deposit and refundable security deposit including the cost of store fittings and set-up shared evenly with the franchiser. Choice International said it targets 300 brand shops in Nigeria for the GREE and Lontor products through a retail franchise partnership with prospective investors. Speaking at the launch of the franchise, the Chairman CIG Motors, Chief Diana Chen, said: “From inception in the year 2000, CIG Motors has actively explored the international market and has opened more than 20 brand shops in Nigeria in the last 18 months and now set to open an additional 300.” She said GREE leads in air conditioners, while Lontor is a renowned brand in household electrical appliances around the world. She said the process would require investors to secure a store space to join. “This requires the investor to simply secure a store size of 120-150sqm at any choice location, shopping mall, plazas, high streets and even residential neighbourhoods. Our Business Development partners, 3rdRetail Africa can assist with identifying a perfect location in all towns across Nigeria.” She said the  initial capital outlay is N20 million and it covers three years franchise fees, product deposit and refundable security deposit including the cost of store fittings and set-up shared evenly with the franchiser.