The proposed airport concession by the Federal Government may have suffered a temporary setback following the directive by the House of Representatives that the project should be suspended. This came after weeks and months of controversy over the proposed concession of the airports. The airports slated for concession, which Outline Business Case (OBS) has been approved by the Infrastructure Concession and Regulatory Commission (ICRC) include the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos; Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja; Malam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano and Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa, Rivers State. From day one, the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika has been engaged in a running battle with labour unions in the industry over the proposed concession. The labour unions in the aviation sector opposed the concession but other stakeholders welcomed the idea. However, the House Committee Chairman, Hon. Nnolim Nnaji in announcing the suspension said, “Based on the outcome of the meeting with the labour Unions, the committee invited the Minister of Aviation and the heads of agencies under him, to discuss the issue of airports’ concession. Several dates were fixed for the meeting, but for one reason or the other, they failed to attend. “The committee had also received several letters from stakeholders both in favour and against the Airports’ Concession. In view of this, the House of Representatives Committee on Aviation, hereby requests that the concession of the four Airports should be put on hold, pending the resolution of the contentious issues raised by the unions and other stakeholders, to avoid industrial actions that may further cripple the already distressed industry.” To the unions, it is a positive development since they have always been opposed to the issue based on the concerns raised with the lawmakers. But observers believe if all the contentious issues are resolved, the issue may not be totally dead as being insinuated. The General Secretary of the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Comrade Ocheme Aba, said the airports being proposed for concessions have been built 100 per cent, saying the investors who want to take over the four airports can be invited to develop other airports. “Invite investors to where capital is needed; invite them to other airports apart from these ones that have already been developed.” The proposed airport concession by the Federal Government may have suffered a temporary setback following the directive by the House of Representatives that the project should be suspended. This came after weeks and months of controversy over the proposed concession of the airports. The airports slated for concession, which Outline Business Case (OBS) has been approved by the Infrastructure Concession and Regulatory Commission (ICRC) include the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos; Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja; Malam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano and Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa, Rivers State. From day one, the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika has been engaged in a running battle with labour unions in the industry over the proposed concession. The labour unions in the aviation sector opposed the concession but other stakeholders welcomed the idea. However, the House Committee Chairman, Hon. Nnolim Nnaji in announcing the suspension said, “Based on the outcome of the meeting with the labour Unions, the committee invited the Minister of Aviation and the heads of agencies under him, to discuss the issue of airports’ concession. Several dates were fixed for the meeting, but for one reason or the other, they failed to attend. “The committee had also received several letters from stakeholders both in favour and against the Airports’ Concession. In view of this, the House of Representatives Committee on Aviation, hereby requests that the concession of the four Airports should be put on hold, pending the resolution of the contentious issues raised by the unions and other stakeholders, to avoid industrial actions that may further cripple the already distressed industry.” To the unions, it is a positive development since they have always been opposed to the issue based on the concerns raised with the lawmakers. But observers believe if all the contentious issues are resolved, the issue may not be totally dead as being insinuated. The General Secretary of the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Comrade Ocheme Aba, said the airports being proposed for concessions have been built 100 per cent, saying the investors who want to take over the four airports can be invited to develop other airports. “Invite investors to where capital is needed; invite them to other airports apart from these ones that have already been developed.”