Inter-Party Advisory Council of Nigeria (IPAC), yesterday, elected a nine-man national executive council to pilot the affairs of the council in the next year. The election, which took place at The Electoral Institute (TEI) during the General Assembly of the council, saw Dr Leonard Nzenwa of African Action Congress (AAC) elected as national chairman. Mrs Chinyere Oge Kalu of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) was elected Deputy national chairman and Alhaji Yusuf Dantalle of Allied Peoples Movement (APM), national secretary. Others are Mr Egbeola Martins, Young Progressives Party (YPP), deputy national secretary; Hon. Muhammad Lawal Nalado, Accord, national treasurer; and Dr Abdul Ahmed Ishaq, Social Democratic Party of Nigeria (SDP), national financial secretary. Also elected are Ambassador Agbo Major, Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), national publicity secretary; Prince Chinedu Obi, National Rescue Movement (NRM), national organizing secretary; and Barrister Nnadi Uche, All People’s Party (APP), national legal adviser.  The election was observed by a four-man Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) team led by Mrs Hauwa G. Habib. Inter-Party Advisory Council of Nigeria (IPAC), yesterday, elected a nine-man national executive council to pilot the affairs of the council in the next year. The election, which took place at The Electoral Institute (TEI) during the General Assembly of the council, saw Dr Leonard Nzenwa of African Action Congress (AAC) elected as national chairman. Mrs Chinyere Oge Kalu of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) was elected Deputy national chairman and Alhaji Yusuf Dantalle of Allied Peoples Movement (APM), national secretary. Others are Mr Egbeola Martins, Young Progressives Party (YPP), deputy national secretary; Hon. Muhammad Lawal Nalado, Accord, national treasurer; and Dr Abdul Ahmed Ishaq, Social Democratic Party of Nigeria (SDP), national financial secretary. Also elected are Ambassador Agbo Major, Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), national publicity secretary; Prince Chinedu Obi, National Rescue Movement (NRM), national organizing secretary; and Barrister Nnadi Uche, All People’s Party (APP), national legal adviser.  The election was observed by a four-man Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) team led by Mrs Hauwa G. Habib.