Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) caretaker committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, has admitted Ebonyi State Governor and Chairman of the South-east Governor’s Forum, David Umahi and his deputy, Barr. Kelechi Igwe, to the party. Umahi and others formally denounced their membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday. At a ceremony in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, Buni presented the party flag and broom, the symbols of the APC, to the governor. The event was attended by Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani; Kebbi State Governor Atiku Bagudu; Jigawa State Governor Badaru Abubakar; Minister of Justice/Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN); and former Senate President Ken Nnamani, among others. Buni said; “By this declaration your excellency you are entitled to all the privileges enjoyed by APC governors. Umahi while addressing the APC party leaders, noted that Ebonyi State has regained its freedom having dumped the ‘dictatorship party’. On his part, a former president of the Senate, Ken Nnamani, said the South-east geopolitical zone was not cut-out to be in the opposition party.  Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) caretaker committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, has admitted Ebonyi State Governor and Chairman of the South-east Governor’s Forum, David Umahi and his deputy, Barr. Kelechi Igwe, to the party. Umahi and others formally denounced their membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday. At a ceremony in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, Buni presented the party flag and broom, the symbols of the APC, to the governor. The event was attended by Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani; Kebbi State Governor Atiku Bagudu; Jigawa State Governor Badaru Abubakar; Minister of Justice/Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN); and former Senate President Ken Nnamani, among others. Buni said; “By this declaration your excellency you are entitled to all the privileges enjoyed by APC governors. Umahi while addressing the APC party leaders, noted that Ebonyi State has regained its freedom having dumped the ‘dictatorship party’. On his part, a former president of the Senate, Ken Nnamani, said the South-east geopolitical zone was not cut-out to be in the opposition party. 