Latest information has emerged on why the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is yet to fix a new date for the 15 by-elections in 11 states, despite the return of normalcy in the country after the #EndSARS protests. The commission had postponed the elections earlier slated for October 31, following the protests across the country. A source at the commission, who sought not to be named, said though the INEC wants to conduct the by-elections, many of the factors that led to the postponement were yet to be addressed. According to the source, one of the reasons a new date has not been fixed for the by-elections because the commission was in a sort of transition mood. He said the expiration of the first tenure of the commission’s chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu and five national commissioners on November 9 was one of the factors. The source said, “While the honourable chairman has been re-nominated by Mr President, the commission would still have to fulfil all righteousness to ensure that the proper things are done.” He also said the commission was yet to receive reports from the Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs), especially those in whose constituencies the elections are taking place. “Other reasons were that there are cases of banditry in some of the constituencies. There are also cases of, for instance, in Bayelsa, where we have flooding and others. But I can assure you that the commission is still on course and will soon fix a new date that would still be within the constitutional timeframe to conduct the elections,” the source said. It was also learnt that the commission would meet in two weeks on the matter and the outcome would be made known to the public. The affected districts and constituencies are Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Bayelsa West Senatorial District; Nganzai State Constituency, Borno State; Bayo State Constituency, Borno State; Cross River North Senatorial District; and Obudu State Constituency, Cross River State. Others are Imo North Senatorial District; Lagos East Senatorial District; Kosofe II State Constituency, Lagos State; Plateau South Senatorial District; Bakura State Constituency, Zamfara State; Ibaji State Constituency, Kogi State; Isi-Uzo State Constituency, Enugu State and Bakori State Constituency, Katsina State.  Latest information has emerged on why the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is yet to fix a new date for the 15 by-elections in 11 states, despite the return of normalcy in the country after the #EndSARS protests. The commission had postponed the elections earlier slated for October 31, following the protests across the country. A source at the commission, who sought not to be named, said though the INEC wants to conduct the by-elections, many of the factors that led to the postponement were yet to be addressed. According to the source, one of the reasons a new date has not been fixed for the by-elections because the commission was in a sort of transition mood. He said the expiration of the first tenure of the commission’s chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu and five national commissioners on November 9 was one of the factors. The source said, “While the honourable chairman has been re-nominated by Mr President, the commission would still have to fulfil all righteousness to ensure that the proper things are done.” He also said the commission was yet to receive reports from the Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs), especially those in whose constituencies the elections are taking place. “Other reasons were that there are cases of banditry in some of the constituencies. There are also cases of, for instance, in Bayelsa, where we have flooding and others. But I can assure you that the commission is still on course and will soon fix a new date that would still be within the constitutional timeframe to conduct the elections,” the source said. It was also learnt that the commission would meet in two weeks on the matter and the outcome would be made known to the public. The affected districts and constituencies are Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Bayelsa West Senatorial District; Nganzai State Constituency, Borno State; Bayo State Constituency, Borno State; Cross River North Senatorial District; and Obudu State Constituency, Cross River State. Others are Imo North Senatorial District; Lagos East Senatorial District; Kosofe II State Constituency, Lagos State; Plateau South Senatorial District; Bakura State Constituency, Zamfara State; Ibaji State Constituency, Kogi State; Isi-Uzo State Constituency, Enugu State and Bakori State Constituency, Katsina State. 