The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, has provided medical outreach and palliatives to flood victims in Koton-Karfe, Kogi State. The minister, who visited the traditional ruler of Koton-Karfe,  Alhaji Abdulrazaq Isah Koto, the  Ohimegye Igu, regretted that the visit did not come earlier because of the recent #EndSARS crisis that rocked the nation. According to a statement by the minister’s media aide, Mr. Austine Elemue, the medical outreach involved free medical screening, treatment, counselling and referral to the appropriate healthcare institutions. She condoled with the flood victims at Koton-Karfe and other affected areas over their losses, noting that flood was a natural disaster, which nobody has control over but cautioned against residing in flood prone areas. The Ohimegye Igu of Koton Karfe commended the minister for touching lives even before her appointment as minister. “You have demonstrated that you are a true daughter of this land. Before your appointment as minister, you have touched lives in many ways and even as a minister, you did not depart from your good deeds. We are indeed very proud of you,” he said. He assured the minister that after due consultation with his council of chiefs, a befitting title would be bestowed on her as a mark of appreciation.  The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, has provided medical outreach and palliatives to flood victims in Koton-Karfe, Kogi State. The minister, who visited the traditional ruler of Koton-Karfe,  Alhaji Abdulrazaq Isah Koto, the  Ohimegye Igu, regretted that the visit did not come earlier because of the recent #EndSARS crisis that rocked the nation. According to a statement by the minister’s media aide, Mr. Austine Elemue, the medical outreach involved free medical screening, treatment, counselling and referral to the appropriate healthcare institutions. She condoled with the flood victims at Koton-Karfe and other affected areas over their losses, noting that flood was a natural disaster, which nobody has control over but cautioned against residing in flood prone areas. The Ohimegye Igu of Koton Karfe commended the minister for touching lives even before her appointment as minister. “You have demonstrated that you are a true daughter of this land. Before your appointment as minister, you have touched lives in many ways and even as a minister, you did not depart from your good deeds. We are indeed very proud of you,” he said. He assured the minister that after due consultation with his council of chiefs, a befitting title would be bestowed on her as a mark of appreciation. 