The judicial panel of investigation set up by the Ogun State government to probe police brutality and human rights violations on Thursday began its sitting with 40 petitions. Speaking at the maiden sitting in Abeokuta, the Chairman of the Panel, Justice Solomon Olugbemi (rtd) said the panel was open to receive more petitions. Olugbemi said the fact finding which would hold for 90 days was meant to ensure that justice is done to all victims and parties. He insisted that the panel was not set out to witch hunt any security operative, but to ensure equity, fairness and justice to all parties involved. Olugbemi warned against threat and intimidation of the petitioners, saying the panel had the powers to recommend anyone found culpable for trial. He said “We will admit evidence that are relevant and at the end, we will make our recommendations. Nobody should have any fear at all. “Let me warn that no petitioner or witness should be threatened because we have powers under the Commission of Enquiry Law of Ogun State to recommend anyone who does that to be charged to the court. “So, nobody should be threatened and nobody should have fears that anything would happen to him. “Already, we have 40 petitions and we are expecting more.” In his remarks, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Akingbolahan Adeniran, expressed government’s commitment to ensure all victims get justice. “The governor is particularly interested in the activities of this panel. He is ready to support the panel towards completion of the exercise,” he said.       The judicial panel of investigation set up by the Ogun State government to probe police brutality and human rights violations on Thursday began its sitting with 40 petitions. Speaking at the maiden sitting in Abeokuta, the Chairman of the Panel, Justice Solomon Olugbemi (rtd) said the panel was open to receive more petitions. Olugbemi said the fact finding which would hold for 90 days was meant to ensure that justice is done to all victims and parties. He insisted that the panel was not set out to witch hunt any security operative, but to ensure equity, fairness and justice to all parties involved. Olugbemi warned against threat and intimidation of the petitioners, saying the panel had the powers to recommend anyone found culpable for trial. He said “We will admit evidence that are relevant and at the end, we will make our recommendations. Nobody should have any fear at all. “Let me warn that no petitioner or witness should be threatened because we have powers under the Commission of Enquiry Law of Ogun State to recommend anyone who does that to be charged to the court. “So, nobody should be threatened and nobody should have fears that anything would happen to him. “Already, we have 40 petitions and we are expecting more.” In his remarks, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Akingbolahan Adeniran, expressed government’s commitment to ensure all victims get justice. “The governor is particularly interested in the activities of this panel. He is ready to support the panel towards completion of the exercise,” he said.      