A High Court in Kano has issued an arrest warrant against three accused persons for failing to appear in court to answer charges of kidnapping and conspiracy levelled against them by the state. The are; Zainab Salisu, Umar Aliyu and Amina Ibrahim aka ‘Gara’, who is the prime suspect in the matter. They are accused alongside seven others in the case before Justice Dije Aboki of High Court 3. Also, the plea of the seven other accused persons in the matter billed for yesterday could not, be taken on as one of the accused, Christiana Uju, could not speak English or pidgin English, but only Igbo language. At resumed sitting, prosecuting counsel, Barrister Tijjani Ibrahim, sought a warrant given their difficulty to get all the accused before the court, to listen to their case just as the court was told of the inadequacies of Uju. The presiding judge, Justice Aboki, who granted the warrant, also asked the state to make available a neutral interpreter on the next adjourned sitting.  The matter was then adjourned to 25th November for continuation. Daily Trust reports that the accused persons were alleged to have connived, conspired and kidnapped one Aliyu Dauda, a two-year-old boy (now deceased) thereby committing an offence punishable under sections 97 and 273 of the state penal code. They were arrested at Unguwar Kawo “B” Lambu Quarters, Nasarawa LGA in May 2017.  A High Court in Kano has issued an arrest warrant against three accused persons for failing to appear in court to answer charges of kidnapping and conspiracy levelled against them by the state. The are; Zainab Salisu, Umar Aliyu and Amina Ibrahim aka ‘Gara’, who is the prime suspect in the matter. They are accused alongside seven others in the case before Justice Dije Aboki of High Court 3. Also, the plea of the seven other accused persons in the matter billed for yesterday could not, be taken on as one of the accused, Christiana Uju, could not speak English or pidgin English, but only Igbo language. At resumed sitting, prosecuting counsel, Barrister Tijjani Ibrahim, sought a warrant given their difficulty to get all the accused before the court, to listen to their case just as the court was told of the inadequacies of Uju. The presiding judge, Justice Aboki, who granted the warrant, also asked the state to make available a neutral interpreter on the next adjourned sitting.  The matter was then adjourned to 25th November for continuation. Daily Trust reports that the accused persons were alleged to have connived, conspired and kidnapped one Aliyu Dauda, a two-year-old boy (now deceased) thereby committing an offence punishable under sections 97 and 273 of the state penal code. They were arrested at Unguwar Kawo “B” Lambu Quarters, Nasarawa LGA in May 2017. 