Three female students of Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University, Igbariam, Anambra State, died in three separate accidents within the area between Friday and Sunday last week. The deceased were said to have died when motorcycles they were riding on were involved in separate accidents. It was gathered that one of the deceased, a final year student of the institution, was rushing to catch up with the early morning lecture when she met her death. Confirming the incident, the Public Relations Officer of the institution, Dr. Chukwueloka Christian, described the deaths as unfortunate, blaming them on the recklessness of the motorcyclists. According to him, it was regrettable that most students have been flouting warnings against the use of motorcycles as means of transportation. He also revealed that the management may soon place a ban on the use of motorcycles by the students. “We’ve  on several occasions appealed to the students living off-campus to leave their hostels early enough so that they can join the shuttle buses and still meet up with their lectures. “We’ve also written to the state government to construct speed breakers on the road to the school but we are yet to receive positive response. “Meanwhile, the vice chancellor is not relenting on ensuring that more hostels are built for the students. The management has already signed memoranda of understanding with four firms. One has already commenced work,” he said. According to him, one of the deceased was a 400L student of English Education, the other a 200L English student, while the third was in the Philosophy department of the varsity.  Three female students of Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University, Igbariam, Anambra State, died in three separate accidents within the area between Friday and Sunday last week. The deceased were said to have died when motorcycles they were riding on were involved in separate accidents. It was gathered that one of the deceased, a final year student of the institution, was rushing to catch up with the early morning lecture when she met her death. Confirming the incident, the Public Relations Officer of the institution, Dr. Chukwueloka Christian, described the deaths as unfortunate, blaming them on the recklessness of the motorcyclists. According to him, it was regrettable that most students have been flouting warnings against the use of motorcycles as means of transportation. He also revealed that the management may soon place a ban on the use of motorcycles by the students. “We’ve  on several occasions appealed to the students living off-campus to leave their hostels early enough so that they can join the shuttle buses and still meet up with their lectures. “We’ve also written to the state government to construct speed breakers on the road to the school but we are yet to receive positive response. “Meanwhile, the vice chancellor is not relenting on ensuring that more hostels are built for the students. The management has already signed memoranda of understanding with four firms. One has already commenced work,” he said. According to him, one of the deceased was a 400L student of English Education, the other a 200L English student, while the third was in the Philosophy department of the varsity. 