A faction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State loyal to late Senator Buruji Kashamu has been divided following the alleged suspension of its chairman, Samson Bamgbose and other party officials for “anti-party activities.” They were reportedly suspended by the State Executive Committee of the party at an extraordinary meeting held on November 9. Barrister Boladale Sanni from Yewa North Local Government was said to have been appointed as the acting chairman. But Bamgbose, on Monday, fired back, describing suspension as a nullity and unbelievable. The embattled chairman, who said he has nine out of the 14-man State Working Committee of the PDP on his side, said the masterminds of the suspension lacked the power to do it. Addressing newsmen in Abeokuta, Bamgbose said those behind it were against his move to unite the PDP which had been polarised for more than 10 years. He said he had the mandate of Kashamu before his death in August to ensure unity of PDP ahead of the 2023 general elections. Bamgbose, in turn, announced the suspension of some associates of Kashamu, Remilekun Bakare, Leke Shittu among others, for allegedly misrepresenting the party.  A faction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State loyal to late Senator Buruji Kashamu has been divided following the alleged suspension of its chairman, Samson Bamgbose and other party officials for “anti-party activities.” They were reportedly suspended by the State Executive Committee of the party at an extraordinary meeting held on November 9. Barrister Boladale Sanni from Yewa North Local Government was said to have been appointed as the acting chairman. But Bamgbose, on Monday, fired back, describing suspension as a nullity and unbelievable. The embattled chairman, who said he has nine out of the 14-man State Working Committee of the PDP on his side, said the masterminds of the suspension lacked the power to do it. Addressing newsmen in Abeokuta, Bamgbose said those behind it were against his move to unite the PDP which had been polarised for more than 10 years. He said he had the mandate of Kashamu before his death in August to ensure unity of PDP ahead of the 2023 general elections. Bamgbose, in turn, announced the suspension of some associates of Kashamu, Remilekun Bakare, Leke Shittu among others, for allegedly misrepresenting the party. 