Six construction firms have bid for the construction of the Obudu International Cargo and Passenger Airport, a record has shown. The companies are Sumec Nigeria Limited, CG Engineering, CIBA Nigeria Limited, Wokor Services, A&K Construction and Poa Adit Nigeria Limited. The airport is one of the signature projects of the Gov. Ben Ayade administration. The state’s Commissioner for Aviation, Dr. Jacob Otu Enyia, assured of the unwavering political will to realise the airport project, citing a provision for it in the 2021 Cross River Appropriation Bill. Dr. Enyia said, “We are convinced that the Obudu International Cargo and Passenger Airport holds a lot of promise for us as a government and people determined to raise the bar of industrialisation and tourism in Nigeria.” The House of Assembly, represented by Nelson Ofem, House Committee Chairman on Aviation, commended the transparent bidding process and urged the executive to ensure that the eventual winner of the bid delivered a quality project. Six construction firms have bid for the construction of the Obudu International Cargo and Passenger Airport, a record has shown. The companies are Sumec Nigeria Limited, CG Engineering, CIBA Nigeria Limited, Wokor Services, A&K Construction and Poa Adit Nigeria Limited. The airport is one of the signature projects of the Gov. Ben Ayade administration. The state’s Commissioner for Aviation, Dr. Jacob Otu Enyia, assured of the unwavering political will to realise the airport project, citing a provision for it in the 2021 Cross River Appropriation Bill. Dr. Enyia said, “We are convinced that the Obudu International Cargo and Passenger Airport holds a lot of promise for us as a government and people determined to raise the bar of industrialisation and tourism in Nigeria.” The House of Assembly, represented by Nelson Ofem, House Committee Chairman on Aviation, commended the transparent bidding process and urged the executive to ensure that the eventual winner of the bid delivered a quality project.