A Federal High Court in Abuja has granted an application by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to freeze the accounts of 20 #EndSARS promoters in Nigeria. The order on the ex parte application was filed by the apex bank through its legal team led by former Attorney General of the Federation  (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Michael Aondoakaa (SAN). According to an online news outlet, the order was made on October 20 following CBN’s directive to banks to move against the alleged #EndSARS supporters. The freeze holds till January 2021. The request, granted by Justice Ahmed Mohammed of the Federal High Court in Abuja, was filed by the CBN on October 20. Some of the affected individuals include Bolatito Racheal Oduala, Chima David Ibebunjoh, Mary Doose Kpengwa, Saadat Temitope Bibi, Bassey Victor Israel, Wisdom Busaosowo Obi. Others affected are Nicholas Ikhalea Osazele, Ebere Idibie, Akintomide Lanre Yusuf, Uhuo Ezenwanyi Promise and Mosopefoluwa Odeseye. Others are Adegoke Pamilerin Yusif. Umoh Grace Ekanem, Babatunde Victor Segun, Mulu Louis Teghenan, Mary Oshifowora, Winifred Akpevweoghene Jacob, Victor Solomon, Idunu A. Williams, and Gatefield Nigeria Limited. The 90-day freeze may be renewed when it elapses, it is learnt. A Federal High Court in Abuja has granted an application by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to freeze the accounts of 20 #EndSARS promoters in Nigeria. The order on the ex parte application was filed by the apex bank through its legal team led by former Attorney General of the Federation  (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Michael Aondoakaa (SAN). According to an online news outlet, the order was made on October 20 following CBN’s directive to banks to move against the alleged #EndSARS supporters. The freeze holds till January 2021. The request, granted by Justice Ahmed Mohammed of the Federal High Court in Abuja, was filed by the CBN on October 20. Some of the affected individuals include Bolatito Racheal Oduala, Chima David Ibebunjoh, Mary Doose Kpengwa, Saadat Temitope Bibi, Bassey Victor Israel, Wisdom Busaosowo Obi. Others affected are Nicholas Ikhalea Osazele, Ebere Idibie, Akintomide Lanre Yusuf, Uhuo Ezenwanyi Promise and Mosopefoluwa Odeseye. Others are Adegoke Pamilerin Yusif. Umoh Grace Ekanem, Babatunde Victor Segun, Mulu Louis Teghenan, Mary Oshifowora, Winifred Akpevweoghene Jacob, Victor Solomon, Idunu A. Williams, and Gatefield Nigeria Limited. The 90-day freeze may be renewed when it elapses, it is learnt.