A 24 year -old student of the Madarasatul Ta’afizu Qur’an, Tazenyi community, in Kogi Local Government Council of Kogi State, Muhammad Rabiu Suleiman, has emerged the overall winner of the annual Quranic recitation competition in the area. Also, Uthman Sa’idu Seddo, of the Madarasatul Ta’afizu Qur’an, came second with 461 points, while Abubakar Tauheed of Madarasatul Ta’alimil Qur’an, scored 493 points in the category two male. In the category 3 female, Halima Ahmad, of Madarasatul Tahfizeel Qur’an, scored 415 points, Huzaimah Uthman of Madarasatul Ihiyau Sunnah, scored 390 points, while also in category 3 male section, Abu -Dardan Yunusa Musa of the Madarasatul Tahfizeen Quran, got 486 points, Muhammad Rabiu Sa’eed of Madarasatul Ihiyau Sunnah, scored 474 points and Yusuf Musa, of Madarasatul Darul- Hadith scored 456 points. In the category 4 female section, Murjanat Umar, of Madarasatul Imamu Nafiu, came first, Shafa’atu Ahmad of Madarasatul Ta’afizeel Qur’an scored 392. 5 points, while Wasilat Uthman, of Madarasatul Nurul- Tilawa scored 379 points. In category 4 male section, Ibrahim Ahmad, of Madarasatul Nurul-Yaqeen, came first,  with 465 points, Ibrahim Jibril of Madarasatul Ta’afizeel Qur’an came 2nd position with 432 points and Abdulrahman Muhammad Ibrahim of Madarasatul Hidayat Islamiyya, came 3rd position with 427.5 points. Speaking at the ceremony, the chairman of the local government Quranic recitation competition committee, Alhaji Idris Ibrahim Tanahu, said the competition, which started in 1986, was initiated by the Centre for Islamic Studies of Usman Danfodio University, Sokoto. He said the annual competition, which was aimed at encouraging the Muslim youths in the vitiation and memorization of the glorious Qur’an was to forge social unity among Muslim ummah. He commended the Ohimegye of Igu-Kotonkarfe chiefdom, Alhaji Abdulrazak Isah Koto, for hosting and making this year’s annual Quranic recitation competition a successful one.  A 24 year -old student of the Madarasatul Ta’afizu Qur’an, Tazenyi community, in Kogi Local Government Council of Kogi State, Muhammad Rabiu Suleiman, has emerged the overall winner of the annual Quranic recitation competition in the area. Also, Uthman Sa’idu Seddo, of the Madarasatul Ta’afizu Qur’an, came second with 461 points, while Abubakar Tauheed of Madarasatul Ta’alimil Qur’an, scored 493 points in the category two male. In the category 3 female, Halima Ahmad, of Madarasatul Tahfizeel Qur’an, scored 415 points, Huzaimah Uthman of Madarasatul Ihiyau Sunnah, scored 390 points, while also in category 3 male section, Abu -Dardan Yunusa Musa of the Madarasatul Tahfizeen Quran, got 486 points, Muhammad Rabiu Sa’eed of Madarasatul Ihiyau Sunnah, scored 474 points and Yusuf Musa, of Madarasatul Darul- Hadith scored 456 points. In the category 4 female section, Murjanat Umar, of Madarasatul Imamu Nafiu, came first, Shafa’atu Ahmad of Madarasatul Ta’afizeel Qur’an scored 392. 5 points, while Wasilat Uthman, of Madarasatul Nurul- Tilawa scored 379 points. In category 4 male section, Ibrahim Ahmad, of Madarasatul Nurul-Yaqeen, came first,  with 465 points, Ibrahim Jibril of Madarasatul Ta’afizeel Qur’an came 2nd position with 432 points and Abdulrahman Muhammad Ibrahim of Madarasatul Hidayat Islamiyya, came 3rd position with 427.5 points. Speaking at the ceremony, the chairman of the local government Quranic recitation competition committee, Alhaji Idris Ibrahim Tanahu, said the competition, which started in 1986, was initiated by the Centre for Islamic Studies of Usman Danfodio University, Sokoto. He said the annual competition, which was aimed at encouraging the Muslim youths in the vitiation and memorization of the glorious Qur’an was to forge social unity among Muslim ummah. He commended the Ohimegye of Igu-Kotonkarfe chiefdom, Alhaji Abdulrazak Isah Koto, for hosting and making this year’s annual Quranic recitation competition a successful one. 