Joe Biden’s White House campaign has slammed President Donald Trump’s threat to stop the election vote count describing the purported plan as “outrageous”. Biden’s team also warned that its legal team was ready to prevent such an “unprecedented” act. “The president’s statement tonight about trying to shut down the counting of duly cast ballots was outrageous, unprecedented, and incorrect,” Biden campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon said in a statement as the election remained undecided. “We have legal teams standing by ready to deploy to resist… and they will prevail,” Dillon said, after Trump branded slow ballot tabulations in battleground states a “fraud” and threatened to go to the Supreme Court to dispute the counting of votes. Trump in his earlier address on Wednesday claimed that he won the US election, despite the final results not yet being given, and said he would go to the Supreme Court to dispute the counting of votes. “We did win this election,” Trump said in an extraordinary speech from the ceremonial East Room of the White House. “This is a fraud on the American public.” The Republican, who according to initial results is in a neck-and-neck race with Democrat Joe Biden, said he would go to court and “we want all voting to stop.” He appeared to mean stopping the counting of mail-in ballots which can be legally accepted by state election boards after Tuesday’s election, provided they were sent in time. (AFP) Joe Biden’s White House campaign has slammed President Donald Trump’s threat to stop the election vote count describing the purported plan as “outrageous”. Biden’s team also warned that its legal team was ready to prevent such an “unprecedented” act. “The president’s statement tonight about trying to shut down the counting of duly cast ballots was outrageous, unprecedented, and incorrect,” Biden campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon said in a statement as the election remained undecided. “We have legal teams standing by ready to deploy to resist… and they will prevail,” Dillon said, after Trump branded slow ballot tabulations in battleground states a “fraud” and threatened to go to the Supreme Court to dispute the counting of votes. Trump in his earlier address on Wednesday claimed that he won the US election, despite the final results not yet being given, and said he would go to the Supreme Court to dispute the counting of votes. “We did win this election,” Trump said in an extraordinary speech from the ceremonial East Room of the White House. “This is a fraud on the American public.” The Republican, who according to initial results is in a neck-and-neck race with Democrat Joe Biden, said he would go to court and “we want all voting to stop.” He appeared to mean stopping the counting of mail-in ballots which can be legally accepted by state election boards after Tuesday’s election, provided they were sent in time. (AFP)