Bayelsa State governor, Senator Douye Diri says it was the prayers of the General Overseer of Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye that aided his victory at the Supreme Court and his subsequent swearing-in as the governor of the state. Speaking during the annual state thanksgiving service on Monday, Diri said now that the election is over, it was time for everybody to join hands for the development of the state despite the political affiliations. The governor said that though he is still finding it difficult wearing the shoes left for him by immediate past governor Seriake Dickson, he will do his best for the development of the state. He said: “Pastor Adeboye is my religious leader; when I went to him during the great turn around, he asked me questions, when I replied, he said go, it is well with you but don’t forget God, that was even before Supreme Court judgement, and afterward, everything turned around for me and the people of Bayelsa. “As I’m talking, I’m still finding it difficult wearing the shoes handed over to me by former Governor Dickson but with God, we will do our best for the people of the state. “As Bayelsa, we should be building bridges of unity and not burning our bridges, before APC and PDP, Bayelsa was there, and our two hands are open to every Bayelsans despite the political affiliation because it’s time to build Bayelsa State. “This is the time to bring ideas for the development of Bayelsa State.” Bayelsa State governor, Senator Douye Diri says it was the prayers of the General Overseer of Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye that aided his victory at the Supreme Court and his subsequent swearing-in as the governor of the state. Speaking during the annual state thanksgiving service on Monday, Diri said now that the election is over, it was time for everybody to join hands for the development of the state despite the political affiliations. The governor said that though he is still finding it difficult wearing the shoes left for him by immediate past governor Seriake Dickson, he will do his best for the development of the state. He said: “Pastor Adeboye is my religious leader; when I went to him during the great turn around, he asked me questions, when I replied, he said go, it is well with you but don’t forget God, that was even before Supreme Court judgement, and afterward, everything turned around for me and the people of Bayelsa. “As I’m talking, I’m still finding it difficult wearing the shoes handed over to me by former Governor Dickson but with God, we will do our best for the people of the state. “As Bayelsa, we should be building bridges of unity and not burning our bridges, before APC and PDP, Bayelsa was there, and our two hands are open to every Bayelsans despite the political affiliation because it’s time to build Bayelsa State. “This is the time to bring ideas for the development of Bayelsa State.”