The President Muhammadu Buhari/Osinbajo Dynamic Support Group on Wednesday stormed the national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) demanding the extension of the tenure of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee. The Buni-led committee was inaugurated in June 2020 and saddled with the responsibility of administering the party’s affairs and organising a national convention within six months following the dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC). But a few weeks to the end of its tenure, the committee has not rolled out the programme of activities for the convention leading to uproar and legal threats against it, and accusations of a planned tenure extension by party stalwarts. Members of the MBO led by their national coordinator, Usman Ibrahim, carried placards and banners with different inscriptions such as, ‘Mai Mala led Committee best choice to reposition the party’, ‘Support the current reforms in the APC’, ‘We support APC transformation for a better tomorrow’ among others. Addressing newsmen during the solidarity rally, the group’s national coordinator, Usman Ibrahim, cautioned party members against threatening the committee over the planned tenure extension. An APC director, Suleiman Abubakar, received the MBO group members on behalf of Governor Buni and promised that the caretaker committee would not disappoint the party but prepare it for victory ahead of the 2023 general elections.  The President Muhammadu Buhari/Osinbajo Dynamic Support Group on Wednesday stormed the national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) demanding the extension of the tenure of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee. The Buni-led committee was inaugurated in June 2020 and saddled with the responsibility of administering the party’s affairs and organising a national convention within six months following the dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC). But a few weeks to the end of its tenure, the committee has not rolled out the programme of activities for the convention leading to uproar and legal threats against it, and accusations of a planned tenure extension by party stalwarts. Members of the MBO led by their national coordinator, Usman Ibrahim, carried placards and banners with different inscriptions such as, ‘Mai Mala led Committee best choice to reposition the party’, ‘Support the current reforms in the APC’, ‘We support APC transformation for a better tomorrow’ among others. Addressing newsmen during the solidarity rally, the group’s national coordinator, Usman Ibrahim, cautioned party members against threatening the committee over the planned tenure extension. An APC director, Suleiman Abubakar, received the MBO group members on behalf of Governor Buni and promised that the caretaker committee would not disappoint the party but prepare it for victory ahead of the 2023 general elections. 