A Civil Society Organisation (CSO), Citizen Action for Good Governance (CAGG), has urged the federal government to work towards national reconciliation and reconstruction. The national coordinator, CAGG, Nazir Galadanchi, at a press conference held in Abuja, said there was a need for reconciliation and reconstruction of the various segments of the society so that another round of #EndSARS does occur. He said: “We called for this conference due to the information we have concerning the plot and plan of those sponsoring #EndSARS protest. We learnt protesters are regrouping to unleash another round of mayhem under the guise of making demands. “We want to state here that this is not the time for another round of destabilising the peace of the nation while demands made earlier are being attended to by the government including to tackle the recession the nation has found itself in. “We must not allow evil to triumph over good under any guise. “There is a genuine need for national reconciliation across our conventional divides. To achieve this onerous task, we must begin to reason and act as Nigerians that want the system to work properly,” he added.  A Civil Society Organisation (CSO), Citizen Action for Good Governance (CAGG), has urged the federal government to work towards national reconciliation and reconstruction. The national coordinator, CAGG, Nazir Galadanchi, at a press conference held in Abuja, said there was a need for reconciliation and reconstruction of the various segments of the society so that another round of #EndSARS does occur. He said: “We called for this conference due to the information we have concerning the plot and plan of those sponsoring #EndSARS protest. We learnt protesters are regrouping to unleash another round of mayhem under the guise of making demands. “We want to state here that this is not the time for another round of destabilising the peace of the nation while demands made earlier are being attended to by the government including to tackle the recession the nation has found itself in. “We must not allow evil to triumph over good under any guise. “There is a genuine need for national reconciliation across our conventional divides. To achieve this onerous task, we must begin to reason and act as Nigerians that want the system to work properly,” he added. 