The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) said it is set to reconductor the overloaded Sokoto – Birnin Kebbi 132 kilovolt (kV) single circuit power transmission line that would enable TCN increase bulk power transmission to distribution load centres in Sokoto State and its environs. The General Manager Public Affairs, Ndidi Mbah, said the new line would enable Kaduna Electric to deliver more electricity to its customers in Sokoto axis. It said the line became overloaded due to massive increase in human population and attendant socio-economic development in the area. “The reconductoring work would rectify the current low voltage and consequent poor power situation so that electricity consumers can enjoy more stable and quality power supply.” TCN said it will commence the reconductoring work on the 130 kilometres power line this week and would complete the project by the third week of December 2020. To reduce the effect of scheduled outages on electricity customers during the period, TCN said it will work from morning to evening daily when there would be no supply of electricity to the affected areas. “Electricity supply would however be restored daily, from 6pm to 8am. We apologize for every inconvenience.” It called for support from the state governor and the people of Sokoto State as well as Kaduna Electric to enable it to succeed. The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) said it is set to reconductor the overloaded Sokoto – Birnin Kebbi 132 kilovolt (kV) single circuit power transmission line that would enable TCN increase bulk power transmission to distribution load centres in Sokoto State and its environs. The General Manager Public Affairs, Ndidi Mbah, said the new line would enable Kaduna Electric to deliver more electricity to its customers in Sokoto axis. It said the line became overloaded due to massive increase in human population and attendant socio-economic development in the area. “The reconductoring work would rectify the current low voltage and consequent poor power situation so that electricity consumers can enjoy more stable and quality power supply.” TCN said it will commence the reconductoring work on the 130 kilometres power line this week and would complete the project by the third week of December 2020. To reduce the effect of scheduled outages on electricity customers during the period, TCN said it will work from morning to evening daily when there would be no supply of electricity to the affected areas. “Electricity supply would however be restored daily, from 6pm to 8am. We apologize for every inconvenience.” It called for support from the state governor and the people of Sokoto State as well as Kaduna Electric to enable it to succeed.