Inadequate number of committee rooms in Nasarawa State House of Assembly (NSHA) has forced top government officials to queue for hours for budget defence. During the ongoing budget defence, various standing committees wait for one committee to conclude its functions before another takes its turn in the legislature. This development has forced the committees to use the Speaker’s conference rooms to receive reports from the various Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). The legislative complex was constructed by the military administration of Wing Commander Abdullahi Ibrahim during the regime of late General Sani Abacha without provision for committee rooms. When it was commissioned in 1999, it had no single committee room. Daily Trust learnt that it was remodelled by the late Governor Aliyu Akwe Doma’s administration between 2007 and 2011. The Chairman House Committee on Lands and Survey, David Maiyaki, had to apologise to management staff of the State Ministry for Lands and Survey for keeping them waiting for two hours before they had access to the hall. The Speaker’s conference room can accommodate about 20 people.  Inadequate number of committee rooms in Nasarawa State House of Assembly (NSHA) has forced top government officials to queue for hours for budget defence. During the ongoing budget defence, various standing committees wait for one committee to conclude its functions before another takes its turn in the legislature. This development has forced the committees to use the Speaker’s conference rooms to receive reports from the various Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). The legislative complex was constructed by the military administration of Wing Commander Abdullahi Ibrahim during the regime of late General Sani Abacha without provision for committee rooms. When it was commissioned in 1999, it had no single committee room. Daily Trust learnt that it was remodelled by the late Governor Aliyu Akwe Doma’s administration between 2007 and 2011. The Chairman House Committee on Lands and Survey, David Maiyaki, had to apologise to management staff of the State Ministry for Lands and Survey for keeping them waiting for two hours before they had access to the hall. The Speaker’s conference room can accommodate about 20 people. 