Fruit juice brand, Chivita, has celebrated its second Annual Chivita World Juice Day with a call for natural juice consumption to boost immunity. The Annual Chivita World Juice Day is a public interest initiative undertaken by CHI Limited, makers of the Chivita brand of fruit juices, to deepen conversations on consumption of 100 per cent fruit juice, thus enabling healthy living and happier lives for all Nigerians. The theme for this year’s edition of the event is ‘Fruit Juice: The Smart Secret of Boosting Immunity.’ MD of CHI Limited, Mr. Deepanjan Roy, emphasised the need for 100 per cent fruit juice consumption as a smart way of supporting immune function during the COVID-19 era and beyond. Mr. Roy said while the pandemic had challenged systems everywhere, it had also raised social consciousness on healthy diets and lifestyle. A guest speaker and Principal Dietician with the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, Mrs. Adejoke Adeniji, listed the benefits of consumption of 100 per cent fruit juice to include strengthening of the immune system, aiding of digestion, weight loss and prevention of allergies and ailments from entering the system. “Consumption of 100 per cent fruit juice is a valuable source of nutrients that are bioactive and can support the immune system by fighting free radicals and also reducing fatigue,” she said. Fruit juice brand, Chivita, has celebrated its second Annual Chivita World Juice Day with a call for natural juice consumption to boost immunity. The Annual Chivita World Juice Day is a public interest initiative undertaken by CHI Limited, makers of the Chivita brand of fruit juices, to deepen conversations on consumption of 100 per cent fruit juice, thus enabling healthy living and happier lives for all Nigerians. The theme for this year’s edition of the event is ‘Fruit Juice: The Smart Secret of Boosting Immunity.’ MD of CHI Limited, Mr. Deepanjan Roy, emphasised the need for 100 per cent fruit juice consumption as a smart way of supporting immune function during the COVID-19 era and beyond. Mr. Roy said while the pandemic had challenged systems everywhere, it had also raised social consciousness on healthy diets and lifestyle. A guest speaker and Principal Dietician with the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, Mrs. Adejoke Adeniji, listed the benefits of consumption of 100 per cent fruit juice to include strengthening of the immune system, aiding of digestion, weight loss and prevention of allergies and ailments from entering the system. “Consumption of 100 per cent fruit juice is a valuable source of nutrients that are bioactive and can support the immune system by fighting free radicals and also reducing fatigue,” she said.