The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has said it granted e-SIM trial approval for mobile network operators to know how workable the new technology will be in the country. The trial, approved to run for one year, will involve testing 5,000 e-SIMs by MTN and 9mobile subject to compliance with some regulatory conditions, the telecom industry regulator said on Tuesday. These conditions, according to NCC, include full compliance by the operators with the Registration of Telecoms Subscribers Regulations 2011; the Mobile Number Portability Regulations and Business Rules 2015; Guidelines on SIM Replacement 2017; and non-degradation of the Quality of Service (QoS) experienced by users of e-SIMs. Daily Trust reports that the government had a few months ago approved the trial for MTN Nigeria before yesterday’s approval for 9mobile. But speaking on the e-SIM trial, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, said the primary objective of the e-SIM trial is to assess the technical performance of the e-SIM on telecoms service providers’ network towards eventual rollout, if satisfactory. According to the EVC, the e-SIMs is a technology that will eliminate the need for physical SIM card slots on mobile devices soon. He added that the trial is in line with the commission’s forward-looking regulatory approach to ensure Nigeria’s telecoms ecosystem is in tandem with global best practices. An e-SIM is a small chip that is embedded on a mobile phone or smart devices. It is designed for convenience, flexibility and simplicity. It makes it easier for subscribers to choose a pre-paid plan provider and switch between network operators. The information on the e-SIM is rewritable by operators and the identification information can be updated over time. Meanwhile, the National Association of Telecommunications Subscribers of Nigeria (NATCOMS) has hailed the e-SIM trial approval. The association’s president, Chief Deolu Ogunbanjo, in an interview with Daily Trust said the e-SIM would eliminate theft or loss of physical SIM and thereby save the SIM owner of loss of money and other vital information. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has said it granted e-SIM trial approval for mobile network operators to know how workable the new technology will be in the country. The trial, approved to run for one year, will involve testing 5,000 e-SIMs by MTN and 9mobile subject to compliance with some regulatory conditions, the telecom industry regulator said on Tuesday. These conditions, according to NCC, include full compliance by the operators with the Registration of Telecoms Subscribers Regulations 2011; the Mobile Number Portability Regulations and Business Rules 2015; Guidelines on SIM Replacement 2017; and non-degradation of the Quality of Service (QoS) experienced by users of e-SIMs. Daily Trust reports that the government had a few months ago approved the trial for MTN Nigeria before yesterday’s approval for 9mobile. But speaking on the e-SIM trial, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, said the primary objective of the e-SIM trial is to assess the technical performance of the e-SIM on telecoms service providers’ network towards eventual rollout, if satisfactory. According to the EVC, the e-SIMs is a technology that will eliminate the need for physical SIM card slots on mobile devices soon. He added that the trial is in line with the commission’s forward-looking regulatory approach to ensure Nigeria’s telecoms ecosystem is in tandem with global best practices. An e-SIM is a small chip that is embedded on a mobile phone or smart devices. It is designed for convenience, flexibility and simplicity. It makes it easier for subscribers to choose a pre-paid plan provider and switch between network operators. The information on the e-SIM is rewritable by operators and the identification information can be updated over time. Meanwhile, the National Association of Telecommunications Subscribers of Nigeria (NATCOMS) has hailed the e-SIM trial approval. The association’s president, Chief Deolu Ogunbanjo, in an interview with Daily Trust said the e-SIM would eliminate theft or loss of physical SIM and thereby save the SIM owner of loss of money and other vital information.