The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat (ARDS) has restocked the Lower Usman Dam with 50,000 fingerlings of 11 different species of fish. The acting Secretary, ARDS, Mr Ibe Chukwuemeka, while flagging-off the exercise, said it was aimed at boosting food security and reducing poverty in the rural areas. He said restocking is a regular event with the maiden edition launched in 1999. “With this initiative, we will fill the gap between fish demand and supply. The federal government has taken steps to place fisheries and aquaculture in the second National Fadama Development programme implemented in all the FCT area councils,” he said. Chukwuemeka, therefore, asked the fishermen at the dam, located in Ushafa, Bwari, to observe the season for the next six months to allow the new fish to mature and start breeding. According to him, the fishermen are to move to other river bodies or dams in the territory pending when the new ones in the dam are fully matured. The Director, Department of Fisheries and Aquaculture, Mrs Ifeoma Okeke, said the campaign is the 6th in the series since 1999, stressing that the programme would continue to receive priority attention from the secretariat. She explained that the government was carrying out the exercise to assist the fishing folks and not for financial gain. The Esu Bwari, Ibrahim Yero, assured the FCT Administration of mobilizing the residents, especially the fishermen, to adhere to the rules and regulations of the dam as well as its security.  The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat (ARDS) has restocked the Lower Usman Dam with 50,000 fingerlings of 11 different species of fish. The acting Secretary, ARDS, Mr Ibe Chukwuemeka, while flagging-off the exercise, said it was aimed at boosting food security and reducing poverty in the rural areas. He said restocking is a regular event with the maiden edition launched in 1999. “With this initiative, we will fill the gap between fish demand and supply. The federal government has taken steps to place fisheries and aquaculture in the second National Fadama Development programme implemented in all the FCT area councils,” he said. Chukwuemeka, therefore, asked the fishermen at the dam, located in Ushafa, Bwari, to observe the season for the next six months to allow the new fish to mature and start breeding. According to him, the fishermen are to move to other river bodies or dams in the territory pending when the new ones in the dam are fully matured. The Director, Department of Fisheries and Aquaculture, Mrs Ifeoma Okeke, said the campaign is the 6th in the series since 1999, stressing that the programme would continue to receive priority attention from the secretariat. She explained that the government was carrying out the exercise to assist the fishing folks and not for financial gain. The Esu Bwari, Ibrahim Yero, assured the FCT Administration of mobilizing the residents, especially the fishermen, to adhere to the rules and regulations of the dam as well as its security. 