Chairman of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Mai Mala Buni, has said that he cannot be distracted by those calling for his resignation. Speaking on Monday in Abuja, while receiving a grassroots politician from Adamawa State, Abdurrahman Buba Kwaccham, who defected from the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to APC, Governor Buni said the committee will not renege on its mandate. “The committee’s goals, which includes reconciling and bringing back some aggrieved party members onboard, are on track and speak volumes for themselves. So the committee doesn’t need to join issues with any group, or individual,” he said. Some APC stalwarts and groups have issued threats against the committee, insisting it must organise a national convention not later than December, 2020. He said he is now focused on the next assignment given to him along with two other governors, namely Sani Bello of Niger State and Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State, to conduct a convention, where a new set of leaders would be selected from state and national levels. Kwaccham, who said he was attracted back to the party by some elders from his state, commended Buni for his quest to reconcile all aggrieved persons in the party. Chairman of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Mai Mala Buni, has said that he cannot be distracted by those calling for his resignation. Speaking on Monday in Abuja, while receiving a grassroots politician from Adamawa State, Abdurrahman Buba Kwaccham, who defected from the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to APC, Governor Buni said the committee will not renege on its mandate. “The committee’s goals, which includes reconciling and bringing back some aggrieved party members onboard, are on track and speak volumes for themselves. So the committee doesn’t need to join issues with any group, or individual,” he said. Some APC stalwarts and groups have issued threats against the committee, insisting it must organise a national convention not later than December, 2020. He said he is now focused on the next assignment given to him along with two other governors, namely Sani Bello of Niger State and Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State, to conduct a convention, where a new set of leaders would be selected from state and national levels. Kwaccham, who said he was attracted back to the party by some elders from his state, commended Buni for his quest to reconcile all aggrieved persons in the party.