Fourteen year-old Eshiet Abasiekeme of Bright Stars Model Secondary School, Akwa-Ibom state has won the UBA Foundation essay contest this year. At the 10th national essay competition’s virtual ceremony, saw the females leading for the fourth year. Eshiet received an educational grant of N2.5 million to study in any African university of her choice. She will also be supported throughout her educational career and beyond with constant mentoring by the UBA Foundation. Reacting, she said: “I feel honoured to be the winner of this year’s NEC, and I want to appreciate UBA and UBA Foundation as this will help towards my dream of becoming a lawyer.” She would want to study at the University of Uyo, she disclosed. The second prize was awarded to 14 year old  Mofuluwake Adesanya of Spring Forte-Lead College Lagos State, who won a N2m educational grant, whilst the third prize of N1.5m went to Abdulganiyy Habeeba, 16, from the International School, University of Lagos. Eshiet and the 11 other finalists, took home their laptop computers to enable them to continue to work competitively in a world that is rapidly becoming fully digitalised. The Managing Director/CEO of UBA Foundation, Bola Atta, applauded all the participants for their exceptional brilliance. She the prize money was increased by 33 per cent this year to help cushion any negative or inflationary effects. The Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of UBA Plc, Mr. Kennedy Uzoka,  commended all 12 finalists, expressing that UBA was happy to be touching lives and making a solid impact through its National Essay Competition, which is now in its 10th edition. He was very pleased about the fact that more females again came out tops this year, adding that notwithstanding the constraints and challenges of 2020, the Foundation received the highest number of entries ever, at over 12,000 digital submissions’.  Fourteen year-old Eshiet Abasiekeme of Bright Stars Model Secondary School, Akwa-Ibom state has won the UBA Foundation essay contest this year. At the 10th national essay competition’s virtual ceremony, saw the females leading for the fourth year. Eshiet received an educational grant of N2.5 million to study in any African university of her choice. She will also be supported throughout her educational career and beyond with constant mentoring by the UBA Foundation. Reacting, she said: “I feel honoured to be the winner of this year’s NEC, and I want to appreciate UBA and UBA Foundation as this will help towards my dream of becoming a lawyer.” She would want to study at the University of Uyo, she disclosed. The second prize was awarded to 14 year old  Mofuluwake Adesanya of Spring Forte-Lead College Lagos State, who won a N2m educational grant, whilst the third prize of N1.5m went to Abdulganiyy Habeeba, 16, from the International School, University of Lagos. Eshiet and the 11 other finalists, took home their laptop computers to enable them to continue to work competitively in a world that is rapidly becoming fully digitalised. The Managing Director/CEO of UBA Foundation, Bola Atta, applauded all the participants for their exceptional brilliance. She the prize money was increased by 33 per cent this year to help cushion any negative or inflationary effects. The Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of UBA Plc, Mr. Kennedy Uzoka,  commended all 12 finalists, expressing that UBA was happy to be touching lives and making a solid impact through its National Essay Competition, which is now in its 10th edition. He was very pleased about the fact that more females again came out tops this year, adding that notwithstanding the constraints and challenges of 2020, the Foundation received the highest number of entries ever, at over 12,000 digital submissions’. 