The African Women Entrepreneurship Programme (AWEP) Nigeria chapter, has reiterated the commitment of the organisation to promote business growth, increase trade by creating better business environments and empower Nigerian women entrepreneurs amidst the effect of COVID-19 in the country. In a statement, the National President, AWEP, Mrs Angela Ajala, said such efforts to promote business growth will be achieved via providing technical and financial training, export training, mentorship and access to finance through several business partners and a clear path to local and international export markets for products and services. Ajala noted that the year has been unprecedented in so many ways, adding that several economies have been badly hit with some sectors decimated beyond recognition. “AWEP is gathering thought leaders and experienced business persons who will share several insights on how women in business can effectively position themselves, their products and services for the coming seasons. “The special guest of honour for the AWEP Annual Conference 2020 will be the minister of State, Federal Ministry of Industry Trade and Investment, Amb Maryam Katagum.” The African Women Entrepreneurship Programme (AWEP) Nigeria chapter, has reiterated the commitment of the organisation to promote business growth, increase trade by creating better business environments and empower Nigerian women entrepreneurs amidst the effect of COVID-19 in the country. In a statement, the National President, AWEP, Mrs Angela Ajala, said such efforts to promote business growth will be achieved via providing technical and financial training, export training, mentorship and access to finance through several business partners and a clear path to local and international export markets for products and services. Ajala noted that the year has been unprecedented in so many ways, adding that several economies have been badly hit with some sectors decimated beyond recognition. “AWEP is gathering thought leaders and experienced business persons who will share several insights on how women in business can effectively position themselves, their products and services for the coming seasons. “The special guest of honour for the AWEP Annual Conference 2020 will be the minister of State, Federal Ministry of Industry Trade and Investment, Amb Maryam Katagum.”