A presidential aspirant for the 2023 general elections, Victor Ani-Laju, has said it is time for those with the vision to lead and develop the country for peace and prosperity. Speaking at a press conference on Monday in Abuja to declare his intention to run for the top position, Ani-Laju, noted that to build a great nation that will benefit all, irrespective of region or religion, Nigeria needs to transform to a country that one does not require connection to aspire to be anything. “The good people of Nigeria deserve better, with 180 million Nigerians living in extreme poverty, 13.5 million out-of-school children and 40 million unemployed youths and decayed infrastructure that has affected healthcare services and standard of education, it is time for the status quo to change. “It is a time for men and women with vision to develop this nation and return its people to prosperity and peace. We must rise and save the nation,” he said. While adding that the cost of living in the country is abysmally high, he urged Nigerians to support a candidate with a vision to lead as ‘‘the political elites have failed in their mandate to rule with justice and fairness’’. He stated that the general lack of basic amenities has led to a high level of insecurity and since injustice has become the order of the day, hunger and starvation pervade the nation.  A presidential aspirant for the 2023 general elections, Victor Ani-Laju, has said it is time for those with the vision to lead and develop the country for peace and prosperity. Speaking at a press conference on Monday in Abuja to declare his intention to run for the top position, Ani-Laju, noted that to build a great nation that will benefit all, irrespective of region or religion, Nigeria needs to transform to a country that one does not require connection to aspire to be anything. “The good people of Nigeria deserve better, with 180 million Nigerians living in extreme poverty, 13.5 million out-of-school children and 40 million unemployed youths and decayed infrastructure that has affected healthcare services and standard of education, it is time for the status quo to change. “It is a time for men and women with vision to develop this nation and return its people to prosperity and peace. We must rise and save the nation,” he said. While adding that the cost of living in the country is abysmally high, he urged Nigerians to support a candidate with a vision to lead as ‘‘the political elites have failed in their mandate to rule with justice and fairness’’. He stated that the general lack of basic amenities has led to a high level of insecurity and since injustice has become the order of the day, hunger and starvation pervade the nation. 