The Alumni Association of National Institute (AANI) has launched a multipurpose cooperative in a bid to support its members post-COVID-19. AANI, an offshoot of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) in Kuru, Jos, is a group of intellectuals that promote nationalism and good governance in the country. The President of AANI and former Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Dikko Abubakar, in a press conference yesterday said it took the decision to create the cooperative knowing that business dynamics would not be as usual when business activities resume fully in the country. Abubakar said the cooperative would be positioned as a business enterprise to harness the strength of its membership by engaging in strategic ventures for return, adding that it plans to take advantage of various government intervention funds for the benefit of its members. He added that the funding arrangement is for members to purchase shares of N100,000 each in the cooperative with the target of 1,000 members in order to raise N100 million. “Going by the above it is expected that the cooperative will be able to Raise N250 Million as a take-off share capital. I hereby call on all members, state chapters and SECs to join hands with us in developing the cooperative to a formidable financial powerhouse,” he noted. The Alumni Association of National Institute (AANI) has launched a multipurpose cooperative in a bid to support its members post-COVID-19. AANI, an offshoot of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) in Kuru, Jos, is a group of intellectuals that promote nationalism and good governance in the country. The President of AANI and former Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Dikko Abubakar, in a press conference yesterday said it took the decision to create the cooperative knowing that business dynamics would not be as usual when business activities resume fully in the country. Abubakar said the cooperative would be positioned as a business enterprise to harness the strength of its membership by engaging in strategic ventures for return, adding that it plans to take advantage of various government intervention funds for the benefit of its members. He added that the funding arrangement is for members to purchase shares of N100,000 each in the cooperative with the target of 1,000 members in order to raise N100 million. “Going by the above it is expected that the cooperative will be able to Raise N250 Million as a take-off share capital. I hereby call on all members, state chapters and SECs to join hands with us in developing the cooperative to a formidable financial powerhouse,” he noted.