Nigerians have been enjoined to practice and promote peace despite the diversity of ethnicity and religion. Eminent Nigerians made the call in Lafia Township Stadium in Nasarawa State at the wedding of the son of Prince Ishaq Didi Bage, son of Emir of Lafia, Justice Sidi Bage (rtd). The groom, Prince Ishaq Sidi Bage, wedded Zainab Shuaibu Dalhatu. The personalities included Chief Justice of Nigeria, Mohammed Tanko, IGP Muhammad Adamu, Chairman of Nigerian Governors Forum and Ekiti State Governor, Dr.Kayode Fayemi, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, Senator Godiya Akwashiki, Speaker, Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Ibrahim Abdullahi, prominent traditional rulers among others. The CJN and other notable personalities used the occasion to call for peace and tolerance among the diverse ethnic groups in the country. They said marriage should be encouraged between people of diverse backgrounds and even beyond the country, saying Nigerians living at border towns inter-marry across the borders. Governor Abdullahi Sule represented the interest of the bride and IGP Mohammed Adamu represented the interest of the groom with the payment of N200,000 as dowry. Governor Abdullahi Sule said, “Marriage as an institution should be used to build bridges across the divide, adding that once this is established, cordial and harmonious relationships would be sustained among Nigerians. “When people of different ethnic backgrounds come together, the issue of carrying arms against one another will not be there. People will live as one and peace and unity will reign supreme in Nigeria.” Emir of Lafia, Justice Sidi Bage, thanked those that attended the wedding and those that sent goodwill messages, calling on the couple to live in peace and avoid third parties in their affairs.  Nigerians have been enjoined to practice and promote peace despite the diversity of ethnicity and religion. Eminent Nigerians made the call in Lafia Township Stadium in Nasarawa State at the wedding of the son of Prince Ishaq Didi Bage, son of Emir of Lafia, Justice Sidi Bage (rtd). The groom, Prince Ishaq Sidi Bage, wedded Zainab Shuaibu Dalhatu. The personalities included Chief Justice of Nigeria, Mohammed Tanko, IGP Muhammad Adamu, Chairman of Nigerian Governors Forum and Ekiti State Governor, Dr.Kayode Fayemi, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, Senator Godiya Akwashiki, Speaker, Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Ibrahim Abdullahi, prominent traditional rulers among others. The CJN and other notable personalities used the occasion to call for peace and tolerance among the diverse ethnic groups in the country. They said marriage should be encouraged between people of diverse backgrounds and even beyond the country, saying Nigerians living at border towns inter-marry across the borders. Governor Abdullahi Sule represented the interest of the bride and IGP Mohammed Adamu represented the interest of the groom with the payment of N200,000 as dowry. Governor Abdullahi Sule said, “Marriage as an institution should be used to build bridges across the divide, adding that once this is established, cordial and harmonious relationships would be sustained among Nigerians. “When people of different ethnic backgrounds come together, the issue of carrying arms against one another will not be there. People will live as one and peace and unity will reign supreme in Nigeria.” Emir of Lafia, Justice Sidi Bage, thanked those that attended the wedding and those that sent goodwill messages, calling on the couple to live in peace and avoid third parties in their affairs. 