Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden has said he is confident of victory in the race to the White House. The Trump challenger accompanied by his runningmate, Kamala Harris, delivered remarks at the Chase Center in Wilmington, Delaware on Friday night. #EndSARS could lead to another Boko Haram – Zulum Ali Kwara is dead, Buhari mourns Biden said: “The numbers tell us a clear and convincing story: We’re going to win this race.” He also appealed for unity in the country following a divisive campaign and voting, saying “we may be opponents, but we are not enemies.” Biden has narrow leads in Pennsylvania and Georgia, as Donald Trump doubles down on election ‘fraud’ allegations. As vote count continues, Joe Biden is projected to have won 264 Electoral votes, while President Donald Trump has 214.
The race will ultimately go to the contender with 270 votes. Trump on Thursday repeated voting fraud claims without evidence in his first address since Tuesday’s elections, Aljazeera reports. In Alaska, Georgia, Nevada, North Carolina and Pennsylvania ballots are still being counted and winners have not been projected in those states. Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden has said he is confident of victory in the race to the White House. The Trump challenger accompanied by his runningmate, Kamala Harris, delivered remarks at the Chase Center in Wilmington, Delaware on Friday night. #EndSARS could lead to another Boko Haram – Zulum Ali Kwara is dead, Buhari mourns Biden said: “The numbers tell us a clear and convincing story: We’re going to win this race.” He also appealed for unity in the country following a divisive campaign and voting, saying “we may be opponents, but we are not enemies.” Biden has narrow leads in Pennsylvania and Georgia, as Donald Trump doubles down on election ‘fraud’ allegations. As vote count continues, Joe Biden is projected to have won 264 Electoral votes, while President Donald Trump has 214.
The race will ultimately go to the contender with 270 votes. Trump on Thursday repeated voting fraud claims without evidence in his first address since Tuesday’s elections, Aljazeera reports. In Alaska, Georgia, Nevada, North Carolina and Pennsylvania ballots are still being counted and winners have not been projected in those states.