Hyundai Motor Company is poised to delight car enthusiasts with the addition of Calligraphy into the several stunning features of its Hyundai Palisade before the end of the year. The Palisade is a mid-size SUV manufactured by HMC since late 2018. It debuted at the 2018 Los Angeles Auto Show on November 28, 2018. The Palisade features three rows of seating, with seating for up to eight passengers when equipped with a second-row bench seat.  But the foremost car manufacturer is adding a top-end model above the Limited that will be called Calligraphy. Like the name suggests, calligraphy represents aesthetics, design and beauty. So the Calligraphy gets a special grille design, 20-inch alloy wheels, unique lighting outside, and quilted leather door panels inside. The Calligraphy is already available in the Hyundai home country of Korea. The U.S.-spec Calligraphy model comes with a relatively modest array of upgrades compared to the Limited model. Among them is the all-wheel drive, trim-exclusive front and rear light signatures including an ultra-wide high-mounted brake light in back. The array of features is endless This includes the Auto-levelling rear suspension, LED tail lights, Front parking sensors, Hands-free smart liftgate with auto open, 7-inch high-resolution cluster display,  Ultrasonic Rear Occupant Alert (Ultrasonic ROA), Rear side window sunshades. With the Ultrasonic ROA, as the engine is turned off, a visual warning in the instrument cluster reminds the driver to check the rear seats before exiting. Another interesting upgrade is the Wireless smartphone connectivity, HD radio, and multiple device connection capability comprising Three 1st-row and two 2nd-row 2.1-amp USB ports (1x power/data & 4x power) and Dual 3rd-row 2.1-amp USB ports (power). The air-conditioning system comprises the Dual auto temperature control with CleanAir Ionizer; External temperature and 2nd-row manual HVAC controls & vents (fan speed & temperature), among other features. Hyundai’s Calligraphy is indeed fanciful as the handwriting and a brand with class; a luxury personified and a machine with irresistible designs. Hyundai Motor Company is poised to delight car enthusiasts with the addition of Calligraphy into the several stunning features of its Hyundai Palisade before the end of the year. The Palisade is a mid-size SUV manufactured by HMC since late 2018. It debuted at the 2018 Los Angeles Auto Show on November 28, 2018. The Palisade features three rows of seating, with seating for up to eight passengers when equipped with a second-row bench seat.  But the foremost car manufacturer is adding a top-end model above the Limited that will be called Calligraphy. Like the name suggests, calligraphy represents aesthetics, design and beauty. So the Calligraphy gets a special grille design, 20-inch alloy wheels, unique lighting outside, and quilted leather door panels inside. The Calligraphy is already available in the Hyundai home country of Korea. The U.S.-spec Calligraphy model comes with a relatively modest array of upgrades compared to the Limited model. Among them is the all-wheel drive, trim-exclusive front and rear light signatures including an ultra-wide high-mounted brake light in back. The array of features is endless This includes the Auto-levelling rear suspension, LED tail lights, Front parking sensors, Hands-free smart liftgate with auto open, 7-inch high-resolution cluster display,  Ultrasonic Rear Occupant Alert (Ultrasonic ROA), Rear side window sunshades. With the Ultrasonic ROA, as the engine is turned off, a visual warning in the instrument cluster reminds the driver to check the rear seats before exiting. Another interesting upgrade is the Wireless smartphone connectivity, HD radio, and multiple device connection capability comprising Three 1st-row and two 2nd-row 2.1-amp USB ports (1x power/data & 4x power) and Dual 3rd-row 2.1-amp USB ports (power). The air-conditioning system comprises the Dual auto temperature control with CleanAir Ionizer; External temperature and 2nd-row manual HVAC controls & vents (fan speed & temperature), among other features. Hyundai’s Calligraphy is indeed fanciful as the handwriting and a brand with class; a luxury personified and a machine with irresistible designs.