About 70 rural women in FCT have been trained in acquiring various skills and empowered with cash grants and starter packs. The Abuja Enterprise Agency (AEA) and the Better Life Programme for the African Rural women (BLPARW), selected the beneficiaries from Bwari and Gwagwalada Area Councils to make disinfectants, hand sanitizer and liquid soap. At the presentation of the starter packs and grants in Abuja yesterday, the Managing Director of AEA, Arabi Muhammad Tukur, said the Rural Skills Acquisition and Sensitisation Initiative (RuSASI) is geared towards accelerating business development in the FCT to stimulate growth, create employment and reduce poverty. Chairperson of BLPARW, Hajiya Aisha Babangida, encouraged the women and youths to be engaged in self-employed entrepreneurship activities in order to contribute their quota to the development of the nation. The Permanent Secretary of FCTA, Mr. Adesola Olusade, said the programme promotes economic productivity and the wellbeing of micro and rural enterprises. Comfort Danlami, a beneficiary said she will start her business, which will enable her earn a living and also cater for her family. About 70 rural women in FCT have been trained in acquiring various skills and empowered with cash grants and starter packs. The Abuja Enterprise Agency (AEA) and the Better Life Programme for the African Rural women (BLPARW), selected the beneficiaries from Bwari and Gwagwalada Area Councils to make disinfectants, hand sanitizer and liquid soap. At the presentation of the starter packs and grants in Abuja yesterday, the Managing Director of AEA, Arabi Muhammad Tukur, said the Rural Skills Acquisition and Sensitisation Initiative (RuSASI) is geared towards accelerating business development in the FCT to stimulate growth, create employment and reduce poverty. Chairperson of BLPARW, Hajiya Aisha Babangida, encouraged the women and youths to be engaged in self-employed entrepreneurship activities in order to contribute their quota to the development of the nation. The Permanent Secretary of FCTA, Mr. Adesola Olusade, said the programme promotes economic productivity and the wellbeing of micro and rural enterprises. Comfort Danlami, a beneficiary said she will start her business, which will enable her earn a living and also cater for her family.