The Senator representing Adamawa North in the National Assembly, Ishaku Abbo has said he dumped the leading opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to attract federal presence in his district. The lawmaker who was elected on the platform of the PDP jumped ship to the APC on Tuesday. Speaking with newsmen after a brief meeting with the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee at the APC National Secretariat on Thursday in Abuja, Abbo said he left the PDP because of “injustice” in the party. The Senator who said, “I’m moving from darkness to light” was accompanied to the APC National Secretariat by the Senate President Ahmed Lawan. “In the first place, the reason everybody should join politics is to serve the people. The essence of government is to work for the poor masses and ensure justice. “My main mission of joining the APC is because I have seen justice, I have seen development and I have seen desire for the leadership at the highest peak to sacrifice their personal comfort just to make the poor people to feel good. So I am in the APC to deliver. I am in the APC to help the people,” he said. Senate President Ahmed Lawan, who introduced the Senator to the APC leaders, said, “Adamawa state is an APC state. The accident that happened to create what is today ruling Adamawa will have to be addressed.” “By the grace of God, by 2023, Adamawa should take the rightful place it deserves. Let me be very specific and emphatic, Adamawa deserves an APC Governor, APC National Assembly, APC state Assembly,” Lawan added. The Senator representing Adamawa North in the National Assembly, Ishaku Abbo has said he dumped the leading opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to attract federal presence in his district. The lawmaker who was elected on the platform of the PDP jumped ship to the APC on Tuesday. Speaking with newsmen after a brief meeting with the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee at the APC National Secretariat on Thursday in Abuja, Abbo said he left the PDP because of “injustice” in the party. The Senator who said, “I’m moving from darkness to light” was accompanied to the APC National Secretariat by the Senate President Ahmed Lawan. “In the first place, the reason everybody should join politics is to serve the people. The essence of government is to work for the poor masses and ensure justice. “My main mission of joining the APC is because I have seen justice, I have seen development and I have seen desire for the leadership at the highest peak to sacrifice their personal comfort just to make the poor people to feel good. So I am in the APC to deliver. I am in the APC to help the people,” he said. Senate President Ahmed Lawan, who introduced the Senator to the APC leaders, said, “Adamawa state is an APC state. The accident that happened to create what is today ruling Adamawa will have to be addressed.” “By the grace of God, by 2023, Adamawa should take the rightful place it deserves. Let me be very specific and emphatic, Adamawa deserves an APC Governor, APC National Assembly, APC state Assembly,” Lawan added.