A High court in Kano has remanded 5 accused persons in correctional facility after they pleaded not guilty to the charges of conspiracy and kidnapping of a 2 year old boy, Aliyu Dauda who later died. The accused were part of ten others who were scheduled to be arraigned before the court on Wednesday but only the five were present. Three of the accused persons were minors and thus were sent to juvenile centre while the two others (adults) to the correctional facility. The defendants would be in detention till December 4th when the court would continue the hearing and ruling on their bail application. The presiding Judge, Justice Dije Aboki of High court 3 also issued a warrant of arrest against the five others who were not in court and asked the state prosecutor to arrange counsels for the juveniles who cannot afford. Among those the warrant was issued against included Zainab Salisu, Umar Aliyu and Amina Ibrahim AKA (Gara) who is the prime suspect in the matter. At the commencement of sitting on Wednesday, the prosecuting counsel, Barrister Tijjani Ibrahim told the court that they are set for the arraignment and ready to continue with the case. All the accused present in court pleaded not guilty to the charges. Daily trust reports that the accused persons were alleged to have connived, conspired and kidnapped one Aliyu Dauda, a 2 year old boy (now deceased) thereby committing an offence punishable under section 97 and 273 of the state penal code. A High court in Kano has remanded 5 accused persons in correctional facility after they pleaded not guilty to the charges of conspiracy and kidnapping of a 2 year old boy, Aliyu Dauda who later died. The accused were part of ten others who were scheduled to be arraigned before the court on Wednesday but only the five were present. Three of the accused persons were minors and thus were sent to juvenile centre while the two others (adults) to the correctional facility. The defendants would be in detention till December 4th when the court would continue the hearing and ruling on their bail application. The presiding Judge, Justice Dije Aboki of High court 3 also issued a warrant of arrest against the five others who were not in court and asked the state prosecutor to arrange counsels for the juveniles who cannot afford. Among those the warrant was issued against included Zainab Salisu, Umar Aliyu and Amina Ibrahim AKA (Gara) who is the prime suspect in the matter. At the commencement of sitting on Wednesday, the prosecuting counsel, Barrister Tijjani Ibrahim told the court that they are set for the arraignment and ready to continue with the case. All the accused present in court pleaded not guilty to the charges. Daily trust reports that the accused persons were alleged to have connived, conspired and kidnapped one Aliyu Dauda, a 2 year old boy (now deceased) thereby committing an offence punishable under section 97 and 273 of the state penal code.