A former Group Managing Director of Access Bank and founder of Africa Initiative for Governance (AIG), Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede has called for investment in the youth population to guarantee a future. He spoke during the AIG annual public lecture where he assured that the initiative would expand its scholarship and fellowship programme to build a critical mass of people with the capacity to move the country forward. “Nigeria’s transformation lies in the hands of its youth, who will go on to lead the public and private sectors, and no stone must be left unturned as we invest in them and build their capacity to rebuild and lead a great nation.” He lamented the recent events in Nigeria with the #EndSARS protests reiterating that the future of Nigeria rests solely in building the capacity of young people. He said in September, AIG began the national selection processes to identify the 2021/22 AIG scholars for Nigeria and Ghana. The 2019/2020 AIG Fellowship was awarded to Ifueko Omoigui-Okauru, a former executive chairman of Nigeria’s Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), in recognition of her outstanding contributions to public service. A former Group Managing Director of Access Bank and founder of Africa Initiative for Governance (AIG), Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede has called for investment in the youth population to guarantee a future. He spoke during the AIG annual public lecture where he assured that the initiative would expand its scholarship and fellowship programme to build a critical mass of people with the capacity to move the country forward. “Nigeria’s transformation lies in the hands of its youth, who will go on to lead the public and private sectors, and no stone must be left unturned as we invest in them and build their capacity to rebuild and lead a great nation.” He lamented the recent events in Nigeria with the #EndSARS protests reiterating that the future of Nigeria rests solely in building the capacity of young people. He said in September, AIG began the national selection processes to identify the 2021/22 AIG scholars for Nigeria and Ghana. The 2019/2020 AIG Fellowship was awarded to Ifueko Omoigui-Okauru, a former executive chairman of Nigeria’s Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), in recognition of her outstanding contributions to public service.