Secondary schools teachers in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have been directed to join the ongoing strike embarked by their counterpart in primary schools over non-payment of the new minimum wage by the FCT Administration. The primary school teachers have been on strike since schools reopened for academic activities three weeks ago. The teachers are demanding payment of the new minimum wage and they hope the strike action would spur authorities to action. The decision to join the strike was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of an emergency State Wing Executive Council (SWEC) meeting of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) at the Teachers House in Gwagwalada yesterday. The union urged secondary school teachers to commence the strike action as from Monday 9th November, 2020, in solidarity with the primary school teachers. The communiqué, which was signed by the state NUT Chairman, Comrade Stephen Knabayi and acting Secretary, Mrs Margaret F. Jethro, said the union had resolved that the ongoing strike action by primary school teachers should continue since the government ‘‘has refused to acknowledge or invite the union for any form of meeting/dialogue since the commencement of the strike’’. “Also, in view of the fact that all teachers irrespective of their places of assignments are one people, one body, and an injury to one in the profession is an injury to all; a solidarity strike by FCT secondary school becomes inevitable,” he said. The communique added, “consequently, all secondary school teachers in the FCT should as from Monday 9th to Wednesday, November 11, 2020, embark on a three-day warning strike.”  Secondary schools teachers in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have been directed to join the ongoing strike embarked by their counterpart in primary schools over non-payment of the new minimum wage by the FCT Administration. The primary school teachers have been on strike since schools reopened for academic activities three weeks ago. The teachers are demanding payment of the new minimum wage and they hope the strike action would spur authorities to action. The decision to join the strike was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of an emergency State Wing Executive Council (SWEC) meeting of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) at the Teachers House in Gwagwalada yesterday. The union urged secondary school teachers to commence the strike action as from Monday 9th November, 2020, in solidarity with the primary school teachers. The communiqué, which was signed by the state NUT Chairman, Comrade Stephen Knabayi and acting Secretary, Mrs Margaret F. Jethro, said the union had resolved that the ongoing strike action by primary school teachers should continue since the government ‘‘has refused to acknowledge or invite the union for any form of meeting/dialogue since the commencement of the strike’’. “Also, in view of the fact that all teachers irrespective of their places of assignments are one people, one body, and an injury to one in the profession is an injury to all; a solidarity strike by FCT secondary school becomes inevitable,” he said. The communique added, “consequently, all secondary school teachers in the FCT should as from Monday 9th to Wednesday, November 11, 2020, embark on a three-day warning strike.” 