Atedo Peterside, the president and founder of Anap Foundation, says the Nigerian economy is rigged in favour of a handful of well-connected people. It comes after the managing director of Dangote Cement, Michel Puchercos, told an investor on Monday that the government had given them a waiver to export cement to Togo and Niger despite the closure of international borders. Reacting to the news of the export to Dangote, Peterside, also the founder of Stanbic IBTC Bank expressed his displeasure in a tweet. “Why refuse everybody else & allow only one company (Dangote)? This is why some of us argue that the Nigerian economy is rigged in favour of a handful of well-connected persons,” he tweeted.  It has also been learnt another firm Bua exported despite clousre. “I have since learnt that Bua Group were also allowed to export goods through Nigeria’s “closed” land borders. FG should please accept that what is good for the goose is also good for the gander. When will the FG consider small honest businesses that are not so well-connected?” Peterside said.  In October 2019, President Muhammadu Buhari ordered the closure of all land borders to prevent the smuggling of arms, food items, and hard drugs into the country. This was supposed to impact positively on local production and increase the safety of the country. The closure of the borders has however affected businessmen adversely, as they have not been able to export their products out of the country or supply neighbouring countries dependent on Nigerian products. “Allowing legitimate exporters & importers to move their goods across the border should be a no-brainer,” he tweeted. It is unclear at this time why Dangote was given a waiver, or if there are other companies given waivers like Dangote, or if this will be the beginning of a relaxation of the border closure order within the country. Atedo Peterside, the president and founder of Anap Foundation, says the Nigerian economy is rigged in favour of a handful of well-connected people. It comes after the managing director of Dangote Cement, Michel Puchercos, told an investor on Monday that the government had given them a waiver to export cement to Togo and Niger despite the closure of international borders. Reacting to the news of the export to Dangote, Peterside, also the founder of Stanbic IBTC Bank expressed his displeasure in a tweet. “Why refuse everybody else & allow only one company (Dangote)? This is why some of us argue that the Nigerian economy is rigged in favour of a handful of well-connected persons,” he tweeted.  It has also been learnt another firm Bua exported despite clousre. “I have since learnt that Bua Group were also allowed to export goods through Nigeria’s “closed” land borders. FG should please accept that what is good for the goose is also good for the gander. When will the FG consider small honest businesses that are not so well-connected?” Peterside said.  In October 2019, President Muhammadu Buhari ordered the closure of all land borders to prevent the smuggling of arms, food items, and hard drugs into the country. This was supposed to impact positively on local production and increase the safety of the country. The closure of the borders has however affected businessmen adversely, as they have not been able to export their products out of the country or supply neighbouring countries dependent on Nigerian products. “Allowing legitimate exporters & importers to move their goods across the border should be a no-brainer,” he tweeted. It is unclear at this time why Dangote was given a waiver, or if there are other companies given waivers like Dangote, or if this will be the beginning of a relaxation of the border closure order within the country.