Scores of workers on Tuesday trooped out in front of Dangote Refinery, Lekki, to demand for an increase in their salary. The presence of the protesters further heightened tensions around the quiet town of Ibeju-Lekki. But in a swift reaction, the Management of Dangote said the protesters were not its company employees but that they are staff of sub-contractors who are in a pay dispute with their employers. The statement by Mr. Anthony Chiejina of the Corporate Affairs department, said the attention of Dangote group has been drawn to an ongoing issue on social media alleging staff protest at the refinery over salary increment dispute. He said contrary to what is being circulated on social media, the protesters are not staff of Dangote Refinery, but that they are direct employees of Onshore, Offshore (Oil), and Chemie-Tech subcontractors. “The situation is under control as we are mediating with the parties involved,” he added. However, a series of tweets showed scores of protesters gathered at what appeared to be the site of the planned refinery and said the protesters were “fighting for their rights”. The refinery which is expected to produce 650,000 barrels per day (bpd) might bring to an end the scarcity of refined petroleum products. Scores of workers on Tuesday trooped out in front of Dangote Refinery, Lekki, to demand for an increase in their salary. The presence of the protesters further heightened tensions around the quiet town of Ibeju-Lekki. But in a swift reaction, the Management of Dangote said the protesters were not its company employees but that they are staff of sub-contractors who are in a pay dispute with their employers. The statement by Mr. Anthony Chiejina of the Corporate Affairs department, said the attention of Dangote group has been drawn to an ongoing issue on social media alleging staff protest at the refinery over salary increment dispute. He said contrary to what is being circulated on social media, the protesters are not staff of Dangote Refinery, but that they are direct employees of Onshore, Offshore (Oil), and Chemie-Tech subcontractors. “The situation is under control as we are mediating with the parties involved,” he added. However, a series of tweets showed scores of protesters gathered at what appeared to be the site of the planned refinery and said the protesters were “fighting for their rights”. The refinery which is expected to produce 650,000 barrels per day (bpd) might bring to an end the scarcity of refined petroleum products.