A Northern group under the auspices of Progressive Movement for Democracy (PDM) has inaugurated steering committee members to search for President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor ahead of 2023. According to the group, the need to commence the process of searching for Buhari’s successor is to avoid friction, disunity, and political crises that are capable of creating a crack in the North. Honorable Muhammad Auwal Musa, Chairman, PDM’s Organising Committee Northwest zone, said they want a united front to fight for the interest of the north ahead of the 2023 Election, just like they did in 2014 when APC was established. He said “President Muhammadu Buhari will leave as president in 2023, therefore the group which was established to bring youths under one umbrella to mobilize and channel their cause for development and political alignments will be saddled with the responsibility to search for a qualified and suitable presidential candidate with the interest of our region. He added that it doesn’t matter which region Buhari’s successor will come from but the group would root for a good President that will have a common vision and interest of Nigerians. He said the group will work and explore all political avenues to identify creditable aspirants that have the leadership capacity for quality representation at all levels of the contest. He urged the youths to stay away from political violence or protest because it will not help the cause for development. The Steering Committee Members cut across the northwest states of Kano, Jigawa, Kaduna, Katsina, Sokoto, and Kebbi. A Northern group under the auspices of Progressive Movement for Democracy (PDM) has inaugurated steering committee members to search for President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor ahead of 2023. According to the group, the need to commence the process of searching for Buhari’s successor is to avoid friction, disunity, and political crises that are capable of creating a crack in the North. Honorable Muhammad Auwal Musa, Chairman, PDM’s Organising Committee Northwest zone, said they want a united front to fight for the interest of the north ahead of the 2023 Election, just like they did in 2014 when APC was established. He said “President Muhammadu Buhari will leave as president in 2023, therefore the group which was established to bring youths under one umbrella to mobilize and channel their cause for development and political alignments will be saddled with the responsibility to search for a qualified and suitable presidential candidate with the interest of our region. He added that it doesn’t matter which region Buhari’s successor will come from but the group would root for a good President that will have a common vision and interest of Nigerians. He said the group will work and explore all political avenues to identify creditable aspirants that have the leadership capacity for quality representation at all levels of the contest. He urged the youths to stay away from political violence or protest because it will not help the cause for development. The Steering Committee Members cut across the northwest states of Kano, Jigawa, Kaduna, Katsina, Sokoto, and Kebbi.