Twenty female journalists in Kaduna State have been empowered with fish farming skills to further increase their income and boost their economic empowerment. The journalists, who were drawn from the Correspondents chapel, were trained by TEKU International and Agro Alliance Limited. Assistant Director of the NGO Musa Dauda said fish farming will improve the livelihoods and standard of living of women in the profession and generally. “If a woman is empowered, you have empowered the entire society, so we came up with this training in order to help women journalists to be self-reliant and also employ others. “Fish farming is a very good business which can be started with a little amount of money, you can start up the business with N10,000 or N20,000 and get more profit when you concentrate well,” he said. Highlighting some key points to successful fish farming, Dauda said, “Fishes can be reared in trampoline ponds, bathtubs or even by digging a five feet deep hole in the ground in your house. The quality of water determines the quality of the fish growth, so one needs to observe the temperature of the water constantly.” Chairperson of the Chapel, Hajiya Asmau Haliru, assured that participants would put what they learnt during the training into practice. She advised the participants to take the training seriously and also extend it to the grassroots for more awareness and empowerment.  Twenty female journalists in Kaduna State have been empowered with fish farming skills to further increase their income and boost their economic empowerment. The journalists, who were drawn from the Correspondents chapel, were trained by TEKU International and Agro Alliance Limited. Assistant Director of the NGO Musa Dauda said fish farming will improve the livelihoods and standard of living of women in the profession and generally. “If a woman is empowered, you have empowered the entire society, so we came up with this training in order to help women journalists to be self-reliant and also employ others. “Fish farming is a very good business which can be started with a little amount of money, you can start up the business with N10,000 or N20,000 and get more profit when you concentrate well,” he said. Highlighting some key points to successful fish farming, Dauda said, “Fishes can be reared in trampoline ponds, bathtubs or even by digging a five feet deep hole in the ground in your house. The quality of water determines the quality of the fish growth, so one needs to observe the temperature of the water constantly.” Chairperson of the Chapel, Hajiya Asmau Haliru, assured that participants would put what they learnt during the training into practice. She advised the participants to take the training seriously and also extend it to the grassroots for more awareness and empowerment. 