As African leaders continue to ponder over how to actualize their dreams for a more socio-economically beneficial inter-state regional trade through the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCTA) agreement despite the COVID-19 pandemic threats, the President of the National Association of Nigerian Traders, Dr. (Barrister) Ken Ukaoha, in this interview speaks on the best options open to the signatory-governments to turn the pandemic into opportunities, using the pact as the pedestal for leveraging their competitiveness in the global trade space.  Sir, given the circumstances leading to the sealing of the AfCFTA and the current realities, do you think the initial enthusiasm of African leaders to boost the continental trade through the pact is still justifiable? Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here For me, nothing much has happened as to change the minds or direction of African leaders. The only thing that has happened is COVID-19, and the pandemic is not limited in space but a global issue. So, it should not change or even reduce the commitment of our leaders. Rather, it should be a uniting point serving as an opportunity for Africa to rally round AfCFTA provisions to look inwards towards creating and deepening internally-driven solutions thereby increasing intra-trade and reliance. The support given by African leaders to Madagascar over COVID-19 medicament is a pointer to what is required around the AfCFTA. As a frontline advocate of sub-regional trade with leadership roles for Nigeria, are you still convinced that the agreement holds bright prospects for Nigeria, in terms of multilateral trade benefits? Nigeria stands to benefit from the AfCFTA, especially given her market share and position as the largest economy in the continent. However, the quantum of benefit depends on the way and manner the country approaches the agreement right from the negotiation stage in terms of level of commitment and identification of strategic objectives for growth and development. Luckily, both technical and strategic intelligence are not lacking in Nigeria. What may be required further is the ability of the country to strengthen collaboration among the relevant institutions responsible for negotiations and implementation of the agreement, endeavor to take leadership role in the negotiations, identify all concerns, interests, priorities (including sectorial choices and priorities), mobilize the capacity to link such priorities with her overall development/sectorial mandates and objectives, uphold costs and benefit analysis outcomes, and see all these as urgent and work towards the realization. Late last year the Nigerian Government closed its borders to the country’s neighbouring countries for alleged risks the past open border policy posed to the nation’s economy. Today, the borders are still closed. What is your view on this policy, especially now that many are calling for the take-off of the AfCFTA come July this year? Indeed, Nigerian government did the right thing and this has been overtly commended by every right thinking Nigerian, including economic observers outside the shores. The increase in production of local rice, poultry products and other grains are indicators of the positive impact of the border closure. Nigeria could not have afforded to continue wasting all the policy and financial investments in the rice subsector and other industries while throwing away her job creation to other countries through unguarded importation. Moreover, what Nigeria did by all sense is to encourage the strict implementation of the regional trade Protocols such as the ECOWAS Trade Liberalization Scheme (ETLS), Inter-State Transit Protocol, as well as the ECOWAS and African Union policy on Aggressive rice production. Benin Republic and Niger Republic have today perhaps understood the need to resist being used as a conduit pipe by smugglers of prohibited items into Nigeria, including the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, drug peddling, etc, which are fueling and promoting insecurity in Nigeria. Nonetheless, now that the concerned countries have understood this, thanks to the role played by the ECOWAS Heads of State Task Force on ETLS and Free Movement, I believe it is now time to consider re-opening the borders. It is also imperative to begin a cogitation of the overall implications of the border closure on the economy, including the consideration of possible compensation of the business actors whose goods have been impounded/stranded at the borders and corridors since the 20th of August 2019 when the closure policy took effect. These are very critical as government begins to contemplate re-opening and in view of the impending AfCFTA implementation which may now likely take off by 2021, as against initial date of 1st July 2020, as a result of the COVID-19. As the President of the NANTS and a strong proponent of free trade among African countries, how do you think Nigeria could play safe in the AfCTA’s implementation by not turning its market to dumping ground for sub-standard goods from other countries in the continent? First, there are safeguard mechanisms in the AfCFTA. Nigeria should, therefore, get seriously involved to underscore the veracity, strength and capacity of such protective safeguards. Secondly, government must be ready to strengthen the operations of relevant institutions such as NAFDAC, SON, CPC as well as the Nigeria Customs, etc, that are responsible for providing such bulwarks against substandard or prohibited items. These institutions must be versatile with the operating rules so as to effectively implement same, and this, therefore, calls for capacity building particularly on the negotiation outcomes, AfCFTA Rules and the overall contents thereof. In addition, these operators must be conversant with and able to distinguish between originating goods and those coming from third party. They must also of necessity be people committed to strictness and patriotism, putting Nigeria first and not on cash to look the other way. Only then will there be little or no cause for alarm. Sir, could you give us an insight into what the ECOWAS Commission is doing now on the close border issue given the fact that COVID-19 pandemic has hampered bilateral and multilateral trades in Africa for over two months now? I want to believe that serious work is being done internally by the Trade and Customs Departments of ECOWAS towards rolling out effective Trade Facilitation strategy that would spur productivity and reduce frictions along the West African borders and corridors. The European Union, the World Bank and the German International Cooperation (GIZ) are assisting in this direction. However, the relationship between community citizens living and doing business in other member states should receive urgent attention not only by the Commission but by the ECOWAS Parliament as well. You must recall that till date, over 300 shops belonging to Nigerian traders in Ghana are still under lock and keys as Ghana continues to rely on domestic Investment Promotion law to outwit and perhaps oppress the regional Protocols on the Rights of Free Movement, Residence and Establishment signed unto by member states. The prolonged lockdown of the nation’s economy must have hit your members (Nigerian traders) badly.  Has the Federal Government reached out to NANTS for the purposes of alleviating your members’ losses in any way? If yes, could you elaborate and if No, what would you like the government to do to minimize traders’ losses nationwide? Well, the COVID-19 pandemic has largely hurt the nation’s economy below the belt and this must be seriously understood by all sectors, actors and citizens. Although NANTS members have not been reached out to with ‘palliatives’ in form of food and money, however, NANTS had recommended some means of palliatives to the Government for action, and it is heartwarming that some of these were heeded to. For instance, the creation of N50 billion SMEs funds by the CBN was part of NANTS recommended action. The need to make the funds accessible to poor and vulnerable traders is our greatest concern. The permission of movement of food items and medicaments during the pandemic was also part of NANTS recommendation and this led to NANTS being called up into the membership of the Federal Government’s COVID-19 sub-Committee on the subject headed by the Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment (FMITI). We are conscious of the fact that revenue accruable to the Government has depleted and therefore all hands must be on deck to bring about solutions and not rely on palliatives. The burden of economic revival is that of every citizen and we must be supportive. Nonetheless, we are appealing for Government to look towards the direction of food security by ensuring the provision of inputs to farmers and possible declaration of emergency on agriculture just like it was declared on health, courtesy of COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, given that majority (over 73%) of our  traders (especially in the rural communities) still do not believe that COVID-19 is real, with over 87% believing that it is ‘bigman sickness’ (sickness for the rich); we are expecting that Government partners with NANTS in engaging in serious sensitization efforts among traders and markets. More so, it is important for government to consider articulating and producing a Guideline (Protocol) for markets, malls and supermarkets operations; fumigating the markets; and providing locally fabricated wash hand apparatus at the entrance of key markets. These should be considered URGENT before fully opening the markets so as to contain the community spread of the dreaded virus which thrives with poor social distancing and sanitation habits for which markets in Nigeria are unfortunately known.  Experts chart roadmap to AfCTA’s July 2020 take-off As Nigeria prepares to sign free trade pact Africa worst hit by COVID-19 pandemic - Oramah