The Chairman of the South South Governors Forum (SSGF) and Governor of Delta State, Ifeanyi Okowa, has assured his Edo State counterpart, Godwin Obaseki, of the forum’s resolve to ensure his victory in the September, 2020, governorship election in the state. Okowa, who was at the Edo State Government House to formally welcome Obaseki into the PDP fold, said the party was a great party and would always work in the interest of the people. He appealed to all members of the party in Edo State to ensure they worked together to deliver the party in the coming election. Okowa said, “I know that he has been doing a great job in the state; with several restrictions, and I know that having come to PDP where there are no restrictions, he will do more for the people.” Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. Obaseki joined the PDP last week after irreconcilable differences with his predecessor and now suspended National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, which culminated in his (Obaseki’s) disqualification. Responding, Gov. Obaseki said the PDP was a big and united party in Edo, and added that whoever emerged in the governorship primary would get the support of the people. Addressing newsmen after Okowa visit, Gov. Obaseki’s Deputy, Philip Shaibu, described the meeting as “very fruitful”. The meeting was also attended by a former Governor of Edo, Lucky Igbinedion; PDP National Vice Chairman, Elder Emmanuel Ogidi; Edo State PDP Chairman, Mr. Tony Aziegbeni; a former Chief of Staff to the President, Chief Mike Ogiadhome; Senator Matthew Urhoghide, Chief Tom Ikimi; a former Works Minister, Arc. Mike Onolememem, among others. Meanwhile, the PDP has said that the candidate of the APC for the September 19, 2020 governorship election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, cannot match any of its aspirants at the poll. Ize-Iyamu was candidate of the PDP in the 2016 governorship election in the state before his defection to the APC. But he also emerged candidate of the APC at its primary poll conducted yesterday in Benin, the Edo state capital. The PDP in a statement Monday, by its National Publicity Secretary,  Kola Ologbondiyan said Ize-Iyamu’s emergence signified failure for the APC. Edo 2020: South South govs, others meet over Obaseki's re-election Obaseki, Shaibu dump APC, set to join PDP Frank: Why Wike, other PDP bigwigs should rally round Obaseki