Ten cases are pending before courts over the crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), our correspondent reports. The June 16, 2020, judgment of the Court of Appeal which affirmed the order of the FCT High Court of March 4, suspending Adams Oshiomhole from the party gave birth to three more cases to add to the initial seven. A three-member panel of justices led by Justice Eunice Onyemenam, on June 16, held that Oshiomhole’s suspension on November 2, 2019, at his Ward 10 in Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State was ratified by the ward, local government and state chapters of the party. Following the judgment, some members of the APC declared the then acting National Secretary of APC, Victor Giadom, as acting national chairman, and further filed a fresh ex parte application to extend an earlier order granted by an FCT High court declaring him the acting national chairman. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. Giadom was granted an interim injunction to function undisturbed as the acting national chairman by the FCT High Court on March 16. This was a suit by the National Vice Chairman (North East), Comrade Mustapha Salihu, against Babatunde Ogala, Lanre Issa Onilu, Waziri Bulama and APC. On June 18, the court presided over by Justice Samira Umar Bature made an ex parte order further extending the tenure of Giadom by two weeks, while Salihu is to function as acting national secretary pending “a validly convened National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting or pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice already filed (whichever comes first).” However, as the other cases are pending in court, Salihu has denied involvement in Giadom’s latest court application. Earlier, on June 11, a Federal High Court in Benin transferred the suit challenging the mode of primary election adopted by the APC National Working Committee (NWC) to nominate its governorship candidate in Edo State to the Court of Appeal. The suit was filed by a factional state Deputy Chairman of the party, Kenneth Asekomhe, and one of the governorship aspirants of the party, Matthew Iduoriyekemwen, seeking to compel the NWC to adopt direct primary for the nomination of its governorship candidate. The defendants in the suit are APC, Oshiomhole, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Inspector General of Police (IGP). Also, on June 17, a Federal High Court made further order stopping the Edo State Government and Gov. Godwin Obaseki from arresting and prosecuting Oshiomhole over an indictment in a white paper submitted to the state government. The judge had earlier directed the state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Justice J. Oyomire, the IGP and the Department of State Services (DSS), who are joined as parties to the suit, not to take any action pending the determination of the issue of jurisdiction. Also, a lawyer and member of the APC, Charles Ude, on June 19, filed an application in support of Giadom as the authentic acting national chairman of the party. Same June 19, a Rivers State High Court in Port Harcourt made an order restraining Giadom from acting as national chairman of the APC. Justice Florence Fiberesima granted an order of perpetual injunction also restraining Giadom from parading himself as a member of the NWC of the APC in a suit filed by Dele Moses and others. Other cases filed over the APC crisis include that of March 5, by a party member, Mohammed Rabiu, before a Federal High Court in Kano challenging the order of the FCT High Court which suspended Oshiomhole. The court presided over by Justice Lewis Allagoa, same day, granted an interim order asking the APC to maintain the status quo pending the hearing of the main suit; which means Oshiomhole remains chairman. Also, on March 13, the Lagos State Chairman of the APC, Tunde Balogun, obtained an order from a Federal High Court, Lagos, restraining the NEC meeting of the APC from disturbing the acting National Secretary, Waziri Bulama; acting National Deputy Chairman (South), Abiola Ajimobi and National Auditor, Paul Chukwuma, from carrying out their functions. Also, the National Vice Chairman (North West) of the APC, Inuwa Abdulkadir, on March 13, 2020, obtained an order from a Sokoto High Court to restrain the party from appointing or electing “Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu or any member” into its top positions except through a national convention. APC crisis: Oshiomhole's removal unsettles Tinubu No leadership vacuum in APC – Spokesman APC crisis rages on despite truce