Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu Wednesday inaugurated the Lagos State Community Policing Advisory Committee (SCPAC) and the State Community Policing Committee (SCPC). The Advisory Committee, which is the custodian and highest level of oversight for community policing in the state, comprises; the State Commissioner of Police, Mr Hakeem Odumosu (Co-Chairman); Chairman, Lagos State Council of Obas and Chiefs, Oba Rilwan Babatunde Osuolale Akiolu (Co-Chairman); heads of security agencies in the state; and the representative of the Police Community Relations Committee, Apostle Kehinde Sowemimo. According to Governor Sanwo-Olu, the SCPC, on the other hand, would be responsible for managing and coordinating the state-level operations of the community policing programme, fostering security awareness and monitoring the progress of community policing in the state. The SCPC comprises the representative of the State Commissioner of Police, Deputy Commissioner Etim Oqua Efiom; and the representative of the traditional institution, Oba Momodu Ashafa, among others. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The governor said the SCPAC Committee would assist the Nigeria Police in the identification, vetting and selection process of community police officers (CPOs) within their communities; help identify security threats in communities and work with the Police Force and the CPOs in evolving appropriate strategies for addressing them, as well as advise on general security issues as they affect their communities. The Advisory Committee would offer feedback on issues touching on police-community partnership with a view to maintaining trust between the police and the community, and also contribute to the overall sustenance of community safety and security. While Sanwo-Olu described security as a collaborative endeavour, he noted that it could not be seen solely as the responsibility of uniformed personnel as every citizen has a role to play in ensuring that the security architecture functions optimally. “We want Lagos State to be a role model for the rest of the country, in terms of how community policing should function. “We want to create an atmosphere of mutual trust and confidence; one that engenders speedy resolution of issues as they arise,” he said. He urged members of the two committees to fulfill the task before them with patriotism, integrity and diligence.  IGP, S/West governors agree on Amotekun Senate calls for decentralisation of police force Zamfara commences community policing, to recruit 500 special constabulary