Homicide detectives attached to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti, Lagos, are investigating the circumstances surrounding the death of a couple in their apartment at Victory Point Estate, Lagos. The husband, identified as Chris Ndukwe, 39, had allegedly stabbed his girlfriend, Olamide Alli, 25, to death and thereafter committed suicide. The police said the woman was found lying in a pool of her blood with deep cuts in her head, while the man’s mouth was foaming with a whitish substance. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the incident yesterday, said that on June 21, 2020, at about 4pm, the Ilasan police station received information that the couple had been found dead in the man’s residence at Road 5, House 16a, Victory Point Estate, Ilasan. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. Elkana said a team of homicide detectives was deployed to the scene and the crime scene was preserved for forensic analysis. “It is alleged that the man stabbed the woman to death with a kitchen knife and thereafter drank a poisonous substance suspected to be the Sniper insecticide. Two blood-stained kitchen knives, two empty bottles of the poisonous substance, three empty cans of the Red Bull energy drink and a pair of pliers were recovered from the scene. “Information gathered from some family members revealed that the couple were in a relationship for over seven years, though not married, but had two boys, aged seven and three years. “The relationship was described as complicated, as the couple were on and off over the years. While the man lived in Victory Point Estate Ilasan, the woman lived in Ogba. The woman was said to have visited the man alongside her 22-year-old sister a night before the incident, on his invitation. “Her sister was the first to have noticed that the couple were dead and raised an alarm. According to her statement, she was woken up by a loud music from the room where the corpses were found, as she and the kids slept in a different room. It is not yet clear what might have triggered the murder. “The two corpses were removed and deposited in a public mortuary for autopsy. The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered a thorough investigation into the case. Investigation is ongoing,” the PPRO said. Man, 56, lover, found dead in a room Woman found dead in Lagos hotel Generator fumes kill two brothers in Lagos