From a two-week recess, the National Assembly will tomorrow resume to begin the second year of the Ninth Assembly which was inaugurated on June 11, 2019. Before the legislators went on break, the N10.8tn revised 2020 budget was passed, domestic and external borrowing requests of the executive were approved, bills, including those seeking to alter constitutional provisions, passed first reading, while others are still at different stages of legislative process. While highlighting the achievements of the Red Chamber in the last one year, the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, said loan requests to the tune of $28bn had been approved for the executive. Lawan, however, said the task ahead of the legislators was to ensure tracking, monitoring and supervision of how the loans were applied. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. In the senate, several committee meetings, including investigative hearings, were held during the two-week break. The committees on customs, power, basic and secondary education, petroleum resources (upstream and downstream), army, aviation, among others, had interactive hearings with heads of government agencies and their reports are expected to be submitted this week. Among the prominent issues to be considered on resumption is the report of the Senate Committee on Power, chaired by Gabriel Suswam (PDP, Benue). Sen. Suswam’s committee had, during the break, held a three-day investigate hearing with stakeholders in the power sector. The hearing was to look into the challenges in the sector despite the Federal Government’s intervention to the tune of N1.8tn Also, the committee on education which received briefing on school re-opening plans is expected to report the outcome of its interactive session with the Ministry of Education. In the House of the Representatives, there are critical issues in the form of bills. Some of the issues include the Infectious Diseases Control Bill, Revised Legislative Agenda and insecurity. The proposed Infectious Diseases Control Bill 2020 was subjected to a two-day public hearing, where organisations and individuals picked holes in it. The passage or otherwise of the controversial legislation will be another focus of the house as it resumes. Revised Legislative Agenda The house had, at a sitting, presented a revised version of its Legislative Agenda to provide a new template owing to present realities. The revision of the agenda adopted by the house was prompted by effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. It will be at the front burner as the house considers its various resolutions on bills and motions vis-a-vis present socio-economic realities. Insecurity The security situation in the county has been a recurring issue in almost all the Ninth House of Representatives sittings as various bills and motions regarding security had either been presented, debated or passed by the house. The house committees on police, army and other related ones are working on various motions related to security. The House Committee on Army, led by Abdulrazak Namdas, recently submitted a report on the Auno attacks. When lawmakers in the Green Chamber reconvene, reports of the committees on security and several others, including pending bills and motions, are expected to be considered.  How Senate fared under Lawan in 1 year 12 things before NASS in 2020 We have approved $28bn foreign loans for Buhari in one year — Lawan