A Chartered Accountant, strategy and financial advisor to corporate entities, Mr. Wole Oluyemi, has identified an opportunity for Nigerian start-ups to create and defend their local market in the Sub- Saharan African region by focusing on products that require the offline presence in addition to the online digital platforms. Oluyemi told Daily Trust in a chat that there had been a huge growth of start-ups in Nigeria especially in the fintech, agrotech and other sectors that are focused on digital services. He added that the improved internet penetration in the country has also enabled these services to thrive while also opening them up for strong competition from the other global players. He however lamented that because the global players are already ahead of the market with access to big data as a result of the large population size in the Asian and the US markets, it becomes challenging for Nigerian start-ups to effectively compete with them globally. “There are great opportunities in the Nigerian market that can be explored by the start-ups as we have opportunities to further deepen our markets with fintech, agro logistics, e-commerce, learning and healthcare sectors. However, there is a need for the Nigerian startups to build products that can be easily scaled across the sub Saharan African region, if not globally,” he said while he mentioned that the low infrastructural development including power supply and data as well as limited access to local financing could impede their success. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He, therefore, stressed the need for government to consciously make efforts to encourage and support startups in Nigeria by creating enabling environment for them to thrive. “Despite the improvements in Nigeria’s ranking as regards the ease of doing business, several players have continue to complain about the need for judicial reforms to protect minority shareholders and settle commercial disputes, multiplicity of taxes, difficulty in obtaining regulatory licences and permits, and the unreliable power supply,” he added.  Nigeria’s problems present a call to innovate, not a flag to caution - Niyi Yusuf FG to invest in animation industry – Osinbajo Telecom: Nigeria’s iconic triumph in South Korea