The Ekiti State Chief Judge, Justice Ayodeji Daramola, has freed 33 inmates from the Ado Ekiti Correctional Centre, in compliance with an instruction from the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Mohammed. The freed inmates included 18 awaiting trials and 13 convicts, while two men were granted bail on liberal terms. A release yesterday by the Chief Registrar of the Ekiti State judiciary, Mr Johnson Apuabi, said Justice Daramola gave the directive during his visit to the Correctional Centre on Wednesday. Justice Daramola said his visit to the Correctional Centre was practically in line with the directive of the CJN to decongest Correctional Centres across the country to stem the tide of the COVID-19 spread and for general decongestion. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Daramola added that the measure was taken “at this appropriate time when coronavirus is ravaging the entire country and the tally keeps increasing on daily basis.” He said, “Thirteen convicts were granted amnesty based on old age, while others were pardoned based on the fact that their jail terms are nearing completion. “In all, 334 cases were reviewed and 18 were pardoned based on lesser offences, ranging from burglary to stealing and theft, that were committed, while two were granted bail on liberal terms.” Justice Daramola stated that the visit was a low-key event devoid of crowd and done in compliance with the Ekiti State’s directive banning large gatherings. The Chief Judge thanked officers of the Correctional Centre for maintaining a hygienic condition. Addressing the pardoned inmates, Justice Daramola reminded them that many of them were incarcerated for belonging to bad groups and advised them to henceforth be good citizens and respect the laws of the land. Justice Daramola pardons 44 inmates at Ekiti Correctional Facility Amidst COVID-19 pandemic: Only 2,843 of 74,127 inmates freed in 3 months Nasarawa gov frees 115 inmates, gives N5,000 to each