Designers in Aba, the commercial city of Abia State, are making brisk business from the production of personal protective equipment (PPE) amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. Daily Trust Saturday spoke with these designers and now reports. For the past two months in Aba, following the outbreak of coronavirus, otherwise known as COVID-19, tailors and fashion designers have changed their line of business. They now concentrate more on making personal protective equipment. From Amammogho Cluster to Kent, down to Howell Crescent and York Street by St. Michael Road, production of PPE is in vogue. Products such as coveralls and facemasks now generate a lot of money for those who make and sell them. Obinna Anoruo, the manager of  Klot Planet Global Limited, an outfit which began mass production of PPE in Aba, said that with the support of government, his company would  like to sustain the business. He said they went into this business to meet the need of Nigerians in the fight against COVID-19. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He explained that the cost of producing the coveralls and facemasks were a bit high; hence government’s intervention to reduce the cost of materials is needed. He further said, “After COVID-19, we would like to sustain the production of these PPE because hospitals would continue to demand for them. That is why we need to align with government; we need their support to produce and supply to hospitals that would continue to need the kits after coronavirus.’’ He noted that his company produced facemasks in a pack of 50 pieces at N7,500, adding that they could produce up to 500, 000 pieces daily. Anoruo further said their customers came from different parts of the country to place orders and take delivery of finished products. He explained that they produced their facemasks with hydrophobic dense layer (water-resistant) and a second filter layer, adding that they sourced their raw materials locally. He said the prices of finished products were high because the cost of production is also expensive. According to him, the thread they bought at N130 now costs N150, just as the prices of other materials have increased. Also, Johnson Obasi, a tailor who specialises in suite making, told our correspondent that he moved into PPE production to avoid staying idle, but suddenly found it very interesting as it bring clients from different parts of the country.  “COVID-19 came and affected my line of business drastically. But because I could not just stay idle, I decided to go into the production of facemasks since it is highly needed for protection. “The patronage has been encouraging. But we need more patronage because our workforce is strong. I produce 500 pieces of facemasks daily. “My clients come from all over Nigeria, especially Lagos and Onitsha because I produce customised facemasks for some corporate industries. ‘Since the state government has made facemasks compulsory and it is almost everywhere now, if they can assist us with fund, we can do better, even after COVID-19. “You can see the machines we are using, as against what the Chinese are making use of. If we have better machines and more money to hire more workers, of course we can beat the best. “The government can as well open up our business by seriously enforcing the use of facemasks. Some persons are still walking around without facemasks, and these are lost customers. “It is a pity that some persons are still moving about unprotected. I appeal to them to try and get facemasks. Yes, it is not fashionable and nobody is comfortable with it on his face, but it is for our own safety. It is a matter of life and death.’’ Furthermore, Mrs Jecintha Kakaide, a tailor in the street adjacent the Cluster, said she produced over 300 facemasks using ankara materials and distributed to young people. “I just want to help people because we can’t afford the foreign facemasks. I saw people walking up and down without masks; that’s why I embarked on the production. Both young and old can use it.  I have made efforts to reach a commissioner in government, who told me to continue the production because they would come to my aid. “I sew different types of cloths here in Aba. I usually bought my materials from China, but when coronavirus came, they (my suppliers) started telling me how bad things were, saying there were no materials; and facemasks are scarce,’’ she said. She further explained that after sewing the facemasks, she would soak them in detergent with hot water before giving them out for use. She, however, said she had started selling it between N100 and N150; and she produces 300 pieces every day. Nigerian tailors are hand-making PPE to help fight coronavirus COVID-19: Ministers wear masks for briefings, healthcare personnel work without them The ripple effect: How COVID-19 is sending waves across the health system