The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), and Free on Board (FOB) Global Logistics Limited have introduced Special Discounted Airfreight Services for Nigerian non-oil exporters from Lagos International Airport to London Heathrow Airport and transhipment road haulage services to 27 EU countries. The Chief Executive Officer of NEPC, Mr Segun Awolowo, said the gesture would encourage local exporters in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic to boost their export businesses. Awolowo said the combined efforts of NEPC, the logistics company and NACCIMA Export Group had created unusual export windows using air cargo to reach out to the world. He said the initial step taken was with BA to airlift non-oil products of Nigerian origin, adding that it has opened another opportunity with Turkish airlines, which will continue to increase volume of Nigerian non-oil export as the day go by. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “It is estimated that the export of Nigeria products will continue to increase through air cargo, which will lead to prompt delivery of good and services”, he said. In his remarks, FOB’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr Jimmy Adebakin, described it as an opportunity for individuals and corporations to start earning income in US Dollars by exporting much needed Nigerian non-oil products like food items and other made in Nigeria goods like textiles, cosmetics and other beauty products to Europe, USA, China, India and Dubai. He said: “This requires little capital to start and if you are not currently an exporter, we encourage you to contact Free On Board Global Logistics Limited and/ or Nigerian Export Promotion Council for advice and support. “This is also a great opportunity for all our youthful population to start gainful self-employment. The days of looking for salaried employment are over. America is built on entrepreneurship, we call on our unemployed graduates to wake up and start exporting businesses”, Adebakin added. He also urged the governors and minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to support the federal government’s non-oil export drives. Commenting on his company’s interest in the initiative, the Group Executive NAHCO Plc, Prince Saheed Lasisi, said that NAHCO had been in the forefront of pursuits aimed at developing useful platforms for offshore marketing of Nigeria’s agri-produce. According to him, this objective informed the company’s continued upgrade on its cargo processing and facilitation infrastructures at the Lagos, Abuja, Kano and Port Harcourt international airports. Firm deepens auto spare parts business in Nigeria FG receives final draft of National Transport Policy ‘FG to return auto policy’