A Lagos-based non-governmental organisation, Suicide Is No Solution (SINS), has launched an advocacy campaign to reduce the rate of suicide in the state. Amid the rising cases of suicide in Nigeria, the organisation has commenced series of activities, including counselling, to stem the tide of deaths by suicide and provide professional support to those considering the option of suicide. The campaign, according to the group, would incorporate a team of mental health practitioners, religious leaders, social workers and volunteers who will visit communities and localities to provide their services. The Project Lead of SINS, Mrs Idy Toye-Arulogun, told journalists in Lagos yesterday that the campaign would run across the country. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “With the psychological effects of the COVID-19 global pandemic, there is a strong need to intensify the campaign against suicide,” Toye-Arulogun said. She noted, “With one person in the world dying by suicide every 40 seconds and Nigeria’s 15th position in the world suicide ranking, SINS is a coordinated response to the increase in the rate of deaths by suicide. The key task of the SINS campaign is the significant reduction in the rate of deaths by suicide in Nigeria through a strong public enlightenment and advocacy campaign that dissuades people from killing themselves.” Toye-Arulogun said the organisation would create a helpline and a back-end professional counselling support structure to engage members of the public going through distress and depression.             She expressed optimism that the SINS intervention would contribute to the mental well-being of Nigerians and ultimately to the reduction of deaths by suicide through various engagements.  Suicide: Formulate polices to address Nigerians’ economic challenges, reduce suicide Mental Health Day and Suicide How to tackle suicide rate among youths – Expert