The Senate Committee on Capital Markets Wednesday described the capital market as a very critical tool that could rescue the nation’s economy from the brink of recession in the face of COVID-19. The Chairman of the committee, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, made this remark during the screening of nominees for full time Director General and Commissioners of the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC in Abuja, Wednesday. Amosun said that the capital market had the depth to revamp the nation’s poor state of infrastructure, noting that there was no better time than now for federal and state governments to leverage opportunities provided by the capital market for sourcing infrastructure financing. The lawmaker said: “We now know what the capital market can do to rescue the economy at a time like this. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Shares are tumbling but we hope it won’t last long, however, we also have to look inward and explore ways of diversifying our economy away from crude oil. “If we have to diversify our economy, the capital market has a role to play and that is why we are here to support you. “And that is why we have suspended everything else to go on with this screening. “We will support the capital market for our country to realise these economic goals,” he added. The committee chairman assured that the National Assembly was ready to assist with enabling legislation that would provide the right environment for the capital market to thrive. In his remarks, the incoming DG, Mr. Lamido Yuguda, pledged the determination of the nominees in ensuring that the capital market in Nigeria realises it’s full potential. Yuguda said the incoming management would be willing to work with operators and stakeholders to ensure robust regulation of the capital market. He promised: “We want to assure investors that this market is for them and we are ready to do everything to ensure that we increase investor enlightenment through education, robust regulation and fair dealing. “For those that want to defraud investors, there would be no respite because we are ready to fight market manipulation to the last, anyone that flouts our rules will be made to face the consequences of their actions”, the investment expert added. ‘Strong participation of domestic investors will stabilise Nigeria capital market’ Senate approves Buhari's N850bn loan request 5 years of Buhari administration:   Economic performance ratings