The Ekiti State governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has presented the instrument of appointment and staff of office to the new traditional ruler of Imesi Ekiti, the Onimesi, Oba Festus Olatunji Olatunde. Imesi-Ekiti is in Gbonyin local government, Ekiti State. Gov Fayemi, who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, performed the ceremony yesterday at the Conference Hall, Governor’s Office, in line with COVID-19 protocol, which permitted a few numbers of attendees and strict observance of physical distancing. Oba Olatunde, who is a former Commissioner for Works and Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Infrastructure in the state, succeeds the last Onimesi, the late Oba Dare Adeyeye Oladimeji, who joined his ancestors on December 22, 2018. According to a release by the Special Assistant (Media) to the Deputy Governor, Mr Odunayo Ogunmola, the appointment of Oba Olatunde was approved by the State Executive Council at its virtual meeting on June 11, 2020 after all requirements stipulated by the Ekiti State Chiefs Law 2012 had been satisfied. The new Onimesi, joined by his wife, Olori Adebimpe Foluke, to receive the certificate and sceptre of authority, commended the state government for upgrading the Onimesi throne to a first-class status. Congratulating Oba Olatunde on his ascension to the throne, Fayemi urged him to work harmoniously with his subjects to accelerate the development of the Imesi community. The governor admonished him to carry his people along when taking decisions that would affect their welfare, and to be “a father to all.” He said, “It gladdens my heart that the expected spirited struggle for the occupation of the exalted stool of Onimesi did not degenerate into uncontrollable controversies. “A tree can never make a forest. There is the need for collective responsibility if we all desire to have a society of our dreams. “I also appeal to the good people of Imesi Ekiti to allow the spirit of oneness and sincerity of purpose in your support and cooperation with the Kabiyesi’’. The Chairman, Gbonyin local government, Mr Ayodele Fadumiye, explained that Oba Olatunde was unanimously selected by kingmakers, saying, “the process was transparent.” The Council boss said Oba Olatunde’s ascension to the throne had placed a daunting challenge on him to ensure the realisation of the hopes and aspirations of his people. Oba Olatunde, expressed, after receiving the staff of office, gratitude to Fayemi for appointing indigenes of the town to key positions in government and providing better infrastructure in Imesi for sustainable use. He promised to bring his experience, exposure, knowledge and wisdom to bear in administering the town and making it a model in Ekiti State. The monarch, who described his kingdom as a “cosmopolitan community which hosts diverse ethnic groups”, pledged to pursue peaceful coexistence. Oba Olatunde called on the princes who contested the throne with him to join him in the process of taking the town to greater heights, noting that the peaceful selection process would assist in the task.  Ekiti govt ratifies nominations of two Obas-elect Ikere monarch asks for recognition from Fayemi Traditional institutions, major mechanism for good governance  -  Fayemi