…Another takes campaign to Utako market An NGO, Tulsi Chanrai Foundation (TCF), has donated food items and other relief materials to the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) to be distributed to the poor to cushion the effect of the lockdown occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic. The TCF team led by its Chief Operating Officer (COO), Mr. Shravan Kumar, delivered the support package to the FCT Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, in Abuja at the weekend. Mr. Kumar said, “The support packs will be distributed with the support of the FCTA personnel. This support started in April, when in the first phase, the FCTA distributed relief materials given by TCF to the needy, orphanages and IDPs.” Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Kumar added that TCF collaborated with Azura Power, Procter and Gamble (P&G) and Fareast Company Limited to provide 40,000 packs of noodles, 540 packs of powdered milk  and 9,972 packs of medicated soap for distribution to the needy who were impacted negatively by the COVID-19 pandemic. Receiving the items, Dr. Aliyu thanked the foundation for the donation, adding that it would go a long way in cushioning the effect of the pandemic on the vulnerable. She noted that the donation was the second by the foundation since the COVID-19 necessitated a lockdown which had caused hardship to the poor. In a similar way, another NOG, Light Interveners Foundation (LIF), on Saturday, took its COVID-19 awareness campaign to the Utako Market, Abuja, to enlighten people on how to curb its spread and stay safe. The Chairman of LIF, Mr. Israel Abam, said the gesture was to support the Federal Government’s effort to contain the pandemic. Mr. Abam said, “We know that the COVID-19 situation in the country and the world is serious, so we decided to contribute in whatever way we can to the fight against the virus. “No matter how small it is; it will be appreciated. We decided to come to a major market in the city where lots of people come to shop.” He explained that a lot of sensitisation needed to be done as people still went about their normal life without minding the effect of the virus. He lamented that, “We found out that many people are not using face mask or observing social distancing. We are here to create awareness and sensitise the market leadership so that they can educate the community on the danger of COVID-19. “We met with the management of the market to give our message and hope to return to meet with the associations to carry out the sensitisation programme. We need to be alive to do business, so people must take care of themselves.” He further said the foundation would be giving out hand sanitiser, cotton, high quality face masks and Vitamin C and zinc supplements. A trader in the market, Mrs. Adaku Okoro, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that most people in the market did not believe that COVID-19 existed. Mrs. Okoro said, “People are not taking measures against the virus,” and therefore, called on government and other NGOs to put more effort in sensitising the people. COVID-19: Foundation donates palliatives to  FCTA Menstrual Hygiene Day: NGO advocates support for indigent girls COVID-19: NGO, Ogiewonyi donates relief materials to residents