Mrs Bilkisu Lawal, a graduate of Theatre and Performing Arts from the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, never imagined she would be a stay-at-home wife. But after marriage, her husband did not want her to work or leave home for many hours. However, she developed a means of making daily income despite restrictions. How did she do it? Daily Trust Saturday reports.  Before she got married, Bilkisu had envisioned how she would graduate and become gainfully employed in a corporate organisation. Although her dream did not come true, she narrated how she started a business at home and did not regret her action. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. “I started charcoal business three years ago and it was lucrative. My product was unique because I chose to package my charcoal with branded bags. The act of branding normal charcoal fascinated my customers, and that was the beginning of my breakthrough. Each packet of charcoal ranges from N1,500 in Abuja and N1,000 in other states. I made the delivery,” she said. The business was moving well for Mrs Lawal, but along the line, something happened and she began to lose her peace of mind despite the huge profit she was making. “My conscience was troubled by the media as I started seeing consistent messages on the negative impact of global warming. I read countless stories on the menace of erosion in our immediate communities, and I knew they occurred because trees were cut down and burnt, and subsequently sold as charcoal. So, I lost my passion for the charcoal business.” Although it was a hard decision to make, Bilkisu made up her mind to stop the business. “I used the profit I made and personally planted 500 trees in Minna, Niger State, to replace the number of trees I had sold in form of charcoal. After that, I found peace. Again, I began to look out for another business to sustain the customer base I built over the years. I am a housewife because my husband does not want me to work,” she added. Mrs Lawal thought of an alternative source of charcoal she could supply her customers without cutting down trees. Interestingly, she found out that there is a kind of charcoal made out of coconut shells. “As I deepened my research, I found out that only few people knew about charcoal made from coconut shells. It is known as ‘magic coal,’ When you put fire on it, it starts burning instantly, unlike the charcoal made from trees. So I swapped into selling magic coal to my customers and enlightened them on its advantages,” she explained. However, she discovered that the profit she made was not as high as what she got from the other type of charcoal, so she had to think of a way out. She said, “While pondering on what next to do, I decided to diversify my business. Many people want to live healthily, so they are conscious of eating healthy foods. They opt for rich orthodox spices, herbs and oils, as against chemically processed foods. I enrolled in courses online and read about herbs, spices and oils. I also strengthened my social media handles.” Two years ago, Mrs Lawal diversified her business into spices, herbs and oils with N20,000. She registered her business and obtained National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC) registration numbers for her products. She is the chief executive officer of Zarabid Emporium. “I sell black seeds, castor seeds, green coffee bean, black and yellow mustard seeds, almond seeds, cocoa butter, avocado butter and a whole lot of others. I have an infrared light I used to keep pest away; and the shelve life can last for two years. From my products, I was able to produce natural hair oil for children with a combination of castor oil, shea-butter and coconut oil at N1,000. I produce a lot of other things. In fact, my storeroom has become my office,’’ she revealed. Today, her goods are supplied to different parts of the country like Abuja, Port Harcourt, Lagos, Minna etc. Although she doesn’t leave home, she has dispatchers that convey her products to different locations. “I managed to maintain my customers online because I am always friendly to people that are rude. I tolerate people. You need to know how to relate with everyone online and treat your customers right so that they would refer people to you. Most especially, keep updating your pictures and make posts that are related to your products,’’ she further said. She interacts with her customers and prospective clients on her social media handle, Zarabid Emporium.  She added that her business activities had helped her to conquer depression. On her advice for other women, especially housewives, Mrs Lawal said, “I want to inspire women who are not allowed to work. I want to let them know that it is important to get up and not live a wasted life. They should not drown in depression. You don’t need a huge capital; even with N2,000 you can start a little business. Now that we have social media handles you can have the business visibility you seek.” ‘Why my art speaks for abused women’ – Tosin Akingba Deforestation:  The Charcoal  Trade Mission Harmattan cold: How charcoal smoke killed two friends