Amidst the near inactivity in the aviation sector caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the aviation workers have threatened to go on strike over non-payment of salaries and incomplete salaries. In an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, the unions called on the President to urgently intervene “to avert crisis in the aviation sector”, adding that they cannot allow the “situation of no salary or incomplete salary to continue.” The unions include the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE); Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN); Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals and Amalgamated Union of Public Corporation Civil Service Technical and Recreational Services Employees. They noted that apart from FAAN, the Nigeria Air Space Management Agency (NAMA) has informed its in-house unions about its inability to continue to pay normal salaries. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The letter dated June 2 read: “And as is well within public domain, most aviation companies have sent their workers home without salaries for months now, while some are paying only a fraction of salaries to workers on essential duties compelled to come to work. “In the light of the above reality, our unions are constrained to serve notice that should the situation of no salary, or incomplete salary, remain beyond the 15th of June, 2020, the only option left for our unions will be to ask all aviation workers to remain at home pending when their salaries can be guaranteed. They expressed hope that the president “will understand our situation and direct that the needful be done in this circumstance.” Daily Trust reports that since flights were suspended in March following the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, there has been growing anxiety among the workers over continued salary payment by the airlines and aviation agencies, who depend on the flights to generate revenue. Some airlines immediately announced stoppage of salary payment while others slashed salaries. In May, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) announced 50 percent cut in salary but this was rejected by the unions. As the situation remains bleak, the unions are therefore crying out to the federal government to urgently intervene. Aviation workers set to ground flight operations over labour strike Aviation unions threaten showdown over promotion Flights operation continues at Lagos airport despite strike