Kidnappers have shot dead a man, Jibrin Sule, over failure by his family to pay N3 million demanded by them. City News had reported that the deceased was abducted by gunmen last Tuesday at Wubo village along Yewuti-Awawa Road in Kwali Area Council. A relative of the deceased who preferred anonymity confirmed the death, saying the kidnappers killed Sule on Saturday evening, even as the family was struggling to raise the ransom. He said the family members got wind of the death while trying to negotiate with the kidnappers to bring down the ransom to M1.5 million. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. He further said, “It was during negotiation that it was discovered that they had already killed Jibrin, but they still wanted to collect the ransom.” He said the family members immediately engaged some vigilante members to go into the forest in search of the corpse, adding that, “Even as I am talking right now, the vigilante members are still in the bush searching for his corpse while the kidnappers’ phone is no longer connecting.” The spokesman of the FCT Police Command, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, explained that the command was not aware of the incident, except that of Yanbabu village, which he said the command had launched an operation to rescue some persons who were kidnaped by gunmen on Sunday night. DSP Manzah further said the command had urged members of the community and its environs to remain calm and support the police in their effort to beef up security around the community and other parts of the FCT to ensure safe reunion of the abducted persons with their families. Meanwhile, residents of Anguwar Sabon Tasha, Naharati, Anguwar Wadata and Abattoir New Extension in Abaji Metropolis have expressed fear over rumours of a planned attack by kidnappers. Abaji town has witnessed incessant kidnaping by gunmen in the last one year. Kidnappers release Immigration officer, hold onto kids after ransom payment Kogi: How kidnapping cripples pastoral life Kidnapping, other crimes persist in Edo despite curses