Alhaji Muhammad Gadaka is the treasurer of the All Progressives Congress in Yobe Sate. In this interview, he X-rays Governor Mai Mala Buni’s one year in office saying, considering the insecurity in the North East, as well as paucity of funds for projects, the Yobe governor has met the expectations of the people. Excerpts: The Mai Mala Buni APC-led administration is one year old. How would you describe the journey so far? Alhamdulillah, the last one year has been an excellent experience. You know this administration took over from the Ibrahim Gaidam APC led government so, it started on the principle of Continuity, Consolidation and Innovation. This is about building on the achievements recorded in the state by the previous administration and thus, the concept of continuity. We have recorded tremendous improvement in basic and secondary education after the Governor declared a state of emergency on education. This was supported by the massive construction of new model schools and renovation of others as well as providing the necessary instructional materials and qualified teachers in the schools looking at the multiple challenges confronting the North East including Yobe. The security challenges, the poor finances coupled with shortfall in revenue; all these challenges did not stop him from doing what is expected of him. Over 10,000 teachers who had not been promoted for quite a long time  have been promoted while 3,000 others have been trained to beef up manpower needs in the basic and secondary schools. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here During his inauguration, he pledged to build functional primary health care centres in the rural areas. How far? Yes, he promised to build a health care centre in each of the 178 political wards in the state. 53 of them have been constructed and equipped with facilities to effectively take care of health needs of the people at the primary health institutions. Every centre has a vast waiting area, a consultation room, laboratory, pharmacy, labour room and two wards serving male and females. This is done in the first year of the administration. Having achieved this in the face of the COVID -19 and financial challenges, we are confident that constructing 178 clinic in his first four year term is as good as achieved. How far has the regime engaged the youth considering that in most cases they are the targets of social vices? This administration has more than any other in history of the state appointed youths in key political appointments. Many youths were appointed as chief executives of government paratatals. Secondly, many youth have benefitted from the skill acquisition programme of the state government. It may interest you to note that many were trained on paint making and others were trained as automobile technicians at Peugeot Automobile of Nigeria (PAN). Many of them are now established and have become employers of labour. The previous administration invested so much in road construction. What is the situation today? ln the spirit of continuity and consolidation we constructed township roads in Babbangida, Damagum, Buni Yadi and Jajimaji.  There are also ongoing rural roads. This is aimed at opening up the communities to increase socio-economic activities in the rural areas. As we go into the second year, there are plans to construct more inter-town roads to boost the economy of the people. What do you say about efforts in revamping the state’s economy? Yes, government revived the dormant Sahel Aluminum Company, the Flour and Feed mills and the woven sacks company. They are all in production now generating revenue to the state. They have also generated employment opportunities for the people. Government is also building modern markets in the major towns as well as a trailer transit camp and mechanic village in Potiskum to generate 5,000 employment. There are some other empowerment drives made by this administration to assist the people build their means of livelihood and economy. The opposition in the state believes the governor did not do well and that some projects like the airport should have been shelved and the resources use for more pressing issues. What’s your take? They are entitled to their opinion but the truth is the governor is focused. He has touched almost all sectors of the economy. In respect of the air port, it is a strategic project that will support the economy. It is a cargo airport. The facility is also a value addition to the security architecture of the state. Mai Mala promise to consolidate on Gaidam’s achievements in Yobe Why Yobe recorded rancour-free polls – Gov elect Buni Rumour merchants have no business in Yobe – Gov-elect