CHI Limited has shown continuous support toward efforts to combat the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic as it donated cartons of nourishing Hollandia Evaporated Milk to several non-governmental organisations, frontline medical workers, and members of the most vulnerable population affected by the pandemic in different communities. The donation of Hollandia Evaporated Milk would help ease the challenges of vulnerable communities currently experiencing inadequate nutrition, and support health workers by providing healthy dairy nourishment to boost their immunity and wellness as they remain in the frontline fighting to save the lives of people infected with the corona virus disease. Beneficiaries of the latest gesture by CHI Limited include Nigerian Red Cross Society (Lagos Branch), Nursing and Midwifery Council of Nigeria (Lagos Chapter), Heritage Homes and Orphanage, as well as Old Peoples’ Home (Lagos State ministry of youth, sports and social development). It would be recalled that only recently, Chi Limited donated 15,000 cartons of Hollandia Evaporated Milk to the COVID-19 Presidential Taskforce and to several isolation & treatment centres across states of the federation. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. Managing Director of CHI Limited, Mr. Deepanjan Roy, stated that the company has been at the forefront of providing quality, healthy and nourishing products through its Hollandia dairy products to frontline health workers and vulnerable members of society during the ongoing COVID -19 pandemic. “As a socially responsive company, our aim is to support organisations in delivering the healthy nourishment that Hollandia Evaporated Milk provides to medical workers and economically vulnerable groups during this challenging time when maintaining good health is of utmost priority.” he said. Chi donates products to aid COVID-19 relief Red Cross, Crescent societies get lifeline from Coca-Cola to fight COVID-19 New Hollandia Lactose Free Milk excites consumers