Barely 24 hours after the International Monetary Fund (IMF) revised its forecast the contraction rate for Nigeria’s economy to 5.4% this year, the World Bank on Thursday revised its projection for the nation economy’s depressive rate to 3.2% this year. The Bretton Woods institution hinged its latest prediction in its Nigeria Development Update (NDU) report on the increasingly worrisome sagging oil prices coupled with the COVID-19 pandemic’s impact on all aspects of the national life. The report titled “Nigeria In Times of COVID-19: Laying Foundations for a Strong Recovery,” estimated that Nigeria’s economy would likely contract by 3.2% in 2020 provided that the spread of COVID-19 in the country is contained by the third quarter of 2020. Noting that plunge in crude oil prices could pull the Nigerian economy into a severe economic recession, the worst since the 1980s, the development finance institution cautioned that “if the spread of the virus becomes more severe, the economy could contract further.” Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. It recalled that before COVID-19, the Nigerian economy was expected to grow by 2.1% in 2020, which means that the pandemic has led to a reduction in growth by more than five percentage points. According to the Bank, the macroeconomic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic will likely be significant, even if Nigeria manages to contain the spread of the virus, with oil representing more than 80% of Nigeria’s exports, 30% of its banking-sector credit, and 50% of the overall government revenue. It further predicted that with the drop in oil prices, government revenues are expected to fall from an already low 8% of GDP in 2019 to a projected 5% in 2020. Commenting on the Bank’s latest report findings, World Bank Country Director for Nigeria, Shubham Chaudhuri, noted: “While the long-term economic impact of the global pandemic is uncertain, the effectiveness of the government’s response is important to determine the speed, quality, and sustainability of Nigeria’s economic recovery. “Besides immediate efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 and stimulate the economy, it will be even more urgent to address bottlenecks that hinder the productivity of the economy and job creation”, the banker advised. Other key highlights of the report’s predictions  are that  the COVID-19 shock alone could push about 5 million more Nigerians into poverty in 2020, thereby raising the poverty rate from 40.1% in 2019 to 42.5% in 2020, job loss, reduction in food intake of vulnerable school pupils and drop in remittances, among others. In his remarks on the options open to the Nigerian government to mitigate the crisis situation, the Bank’s Lead Economist for Nigeria and co-author of the report, Marco Hernandez, advised that “the unprecedented crisis requires an equally unprecedented policy response from the entire Nigerian public sector, in collaboration with the private sector, to save lives, protect livelihoods, and lay the foundations for a strong economic recovery” World Bank approves $750m for Nigeria’s power sector NESG forecasts 4.1% GDP rate decline for Nigeria Recession: Analysts list implications, survival options for Nigeria