An economist, Prof. Sheriffdeen Adewale Tella, has asked Ogun State Government to make public its economic plans on the N250 billion loan approved last week by the state’s legislature as part of the appropriation for the 2020 fiscal year. Tella, who queried the ‘speedy’ approval of the Executive’s loan by legislators, said they should have “asked the proper question” on projects the loan was meant to execute. Speaking with Daily Trust on Monday, the university don said there was the need for the government to be explicit on how the loan will be spent, hinging his views on what he termed high-level of distrust in the state considering how citizens were treated in the past. He said: “Before COVID – 19, what has the state government been doing? Let’s have a plan. Let’s know what you’re going to use such an amount of money for. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. “Then, how much are we owing? We must know how much we are owing before adding N250bn. And the House of Assembly is not asking questions on that. There is high-level of distrust in the state and in Nigeria because of the way people have treated us in the past. “I don’t subscribe to that amount of money without us knowing how much we are owing and what the money is to be used for,” the economist said. In his comments, the Chairman of Labour Party (LP), Abayomi Arabambi advised the government to strictly expend the loan on capital projects that will generate returns in various ways for the state. Arabambi noted that by expending the loan on capital projects will boost the economy of the state as well as the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). It would be recalled that the House of Assembly had last Thursday approved the Executive’s request to access the N250 billion credit facility. The facility to be accessed in tranches of N100 billion annually, would be part of the government’s three-year Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) programme to stimulate and grow the state’s economy. The speaker, Olakunle Oluomo, who presided over the plenary session, said that access to other tranches would be subject to further approval by the Legislature. PDP, APC bicker over Sanwo-Olu’s N250bn loan request Senator got, diverted N1.2bn loan as NEXIM Bank director – EFCC ‘FG’s policy on rice production unrealistic’