Six months after the multiple pipeline explosion that killed two persons and displaced many residents at Abule Egba in Lagos, the state government is set to close the Igando relief camp where the displaced residents have been taking refuge. The explosion, which occurred in January 2020, destroyed houses and other valuables worth millions of naira. Since the explosion, the state government through its emergency management agency (LASEMA), has rehabilitated displaced people numbering over 300. The displaced included 40 infants and 30 children. More than five months after it has been rehabilitating them, the state government is set to close the camp on June 30. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The Director-General/Chief Executive Officer of LASEMA, Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, disclosed this on Saturday while giving an update on the relief camp. Oke-Osanyitolu said LASEMA had worked with multiple agencies to ensure the safety and security of the 300 people in the areas of full feeding and accommodation for all residents, transport and educational support for school-aged children prior to the cessation due to COVID-19, full medical treatment, including secondary care where required, and ante-natal care for pregnant women in partnership with the Alimosho General Hospital. Other areas of intervention, he said, included psychosocial support and counselling, financial assistance to facilitate re-entry into society and COVID-19 safety awareness. He said, “In particular, we appreciate all the corporate bodies that supported in cash and in kind. We wish to extend special appreciation to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu; the Deputy Governor, Mr Obafemi Hamzat; the First Lady, Dr Mrs Sanwo-Olu and the wife of the Deputy Governor, Mrs Hamzat, for their personal visits, which brought cheer and solace to the residents.”  Abule-Egba explosion: Lagos govt camps victims at Igando Explosion: One missing, 276 persons displaced — Lagos govt Lagos explosion: Death toll rises to 21, two still missing