The governor of Oyo State, Engineer Seyi Makinde has installed a new traditional ruler for the ancient town of Saki. Makinde, who installed Khalid Oyeniyi as the 33rd Okere of Saki yesterday, urged the new king to be alive always to his traditional responsibilities by serving and protecting the interests of his people, just as he enjoined him to give unflinching support to his administration. The governor also assured the people of the town that his administration was committed to completing all the ongoing projects in the axis, while new ones would be executed to register his love for the people of the Oke-Ogun area. Makinde, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Bisi Ilaka, at the presentation of the staff of office, urged other traditional rulers in the state to sustain their trust in his administration, adding that supporting the state government was the only means to enhance the drive for good governance. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He stressed that supporting his government would engender peace, security, quality education, effective health-care service delivery and a sustainable value-chain agriculture that would attract foreign investors and a prosperous economy. He commended the people of Sakiland for their “patience and civility” for seven years after the demise of the late Okere, Oba Olarinre Olatoyese. Makinde said, “Following the demise of the late Okere of Saki, Oba Olarinre Olatoyese Kelani, on April 5, 2013, the town waited for over six years without a ruler. The untoward lack of progress this delay brought to the town can best be imagined. Development was at its lowest ebb. “I am, however, happy to see that the ruling house, which was expected to produce a new Oba, saw reason to work as one family, which eventually paid off with the emergence of a young, vibrant and cerebral king.” In his acceptance speech, Oba Oyeniyi urged the state government to restore power supply to Sakiland and support farming, which is the core business in the Oke-Ogun axis. The king lamented poor prices and patronage by foreigners in buying farm produce in the Oke-Ogun area. He also appealed to the state government to kindly set up an eye clinic in Sakiland, saying, “Eye problem is one of the challenges our people are facing.” Oba Oyeniyi also appealed to Gov Makinde to complete the dualisation of the roads under construction in Saki.  What we want from Oyo governor-elect — Oke-Ogun residents Be wary of political jobbers, Accord Party chieftain advises Makinde Benue: 10 First class traditional rulers get staff of office