The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, has inaugurated an inter-ministerial task force charged with the responsibility of ensuring full implementation of Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) in the armed forces and other paramilitary agencies. The minister said the GIMFIS initiative was developed by different government agencies to enhance effectiveness of government financial activities. She recalled: “The programme, which is jointly developed by the OAGF, BOF, DMO, CBN and FIRS in consultations with other stakeholders, and you may recall that GIFMIS is part of pillar 3 of the National Strategy for Public Service Reform aimed at making the Nigerian Public service world class anchored on optimum service delivery to the citizenry. “The overall objective of government is to implement a computerised financial management information system for the FGN which is efficient, effective and increase the ability of federal government to undertake central control and monitoring of expenditure and receipts in the MDAS as well as Increase the ability to access information on financial and operational performance. As part of our efforts to serve you better, we are conducting a survey to hear your views about our relationship and a membership club that we plan to launch. We would like you to take a few moments and answer these few questions. Your views are essential to us and your feedback will help us serve you better. “It also aims at increasing internal controls to prevent and detect potential and actual fraud, access to information on government’s cash position and improves medium term planning through Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)”, she added. The minister listed the Committee’s terms of reference as including, “Review the application of GIFMIS in the Armed Forces for Budget Preparation and review the application of GIFMIS in the Armed Forces for Bottom-up Cash Planning, and review the application of GIFMIS in the Armed Forces for Procurement and Commitment Management Process among others In his remarks, the Accountant General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris, said the GIFMIS served as an integral item in Pillar 3 of National Asset in public service. According to him, the system has been in place over the past eight years ago, although it is not popular among MDAs, which is why his office is driving the process in managing government resources effectively. The committee, which is expected to find solutions to the concerns raised was given three weeks by the minister to conclude its assignment and submit its report Accountant-General positive about economic growth Petroleum ministry trains staff on e-budgeting, GIFMIS NITDA warns MDAs, firms against hosting Nigeria’s data abroad