Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Saturday flagged off the construction of the long-awaited 8.75 kilometre-long regional road in Lekki region. Sanwo-Olu, who spoke at the ground breaking ceremony held on the project site described the project as a critical infrastructure proposed in the Lekki-Epe masterplan aimed at decongesting gridlocks in the entire Eti Osa Local Government. He described the development as a manifestation of his administration’s commitment towards improving socio-economic activities in the Lekki-Epe axis by the provision of supporting infrastructure. The project, being undertaken by MS Hi-Tech Construction Company Limited, will link the Lekki-Epe expressway at Victoria Garden City (VGC) junction to the Freedom Way in Eti Osa. The road was also said to be a precursor to the proposed Fourth Mainland Bridge that is expected to take off from the axis. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here When completed in the next 24 months, Sanwo-Olu said, the regional road would not only change the entire landscape of Eti Osa and improve journey time for commuters, it would also drive up the efficiency of government’s traffic management strategy. He said, “We know what people go through on the Lekki-Epe expressway as a result of traffic. We are moved by the pains to hasten the process of putting the regional road in place to bring the long-sought relief to our citizens working and living on this axis.” Sanwo-Olu made it known that the government and the contractor had made plans for exigencies that may arise in the course of the construction work, assuring that the project would not be stalled by unforeseen challenges. He appealed to residents to cooperate with the government and the contractor towards making the project a reality, pointing out that the construction work may bring about temporary period of hardship but that the relief that would follow the completion of the project would assuage any feeling of pain experienced by residents in the axis. The governor assured that the multi-million dollar project would take off before the end of the current dispensation.  We are excited that Dangote Refinery is in Lagos - Sanwo-Olu Sanwo-Olu flags off Victoria Island-Oniru 1.8km road network Traffic: Lagos govt launches new boats, begins commercial water transportation