The Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Yekini Nabena, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to convene an emergency meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party to address the current leadership crisis. Nabena, who addressed journalists yesterday in Abuja, said the NEC meeting was necessary to deliberate on how to consolidate the APC’s control of Edo and Ondo states ahead of the forthcoming governorship elections. “The APC is clearly at a tipping point. President Buhari is the leader of the party and it has become imperative for him to convene an emergency meeting of the National Executive Committee to find solutions to the crisis and chart a way forward,” Nabena stated. The Bayelsa born APC chieftain said Victor Giadom who is claiming the chairmanship of the APC was acting the script of his sponsors and fifth columnists. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. He said: “At least four people are laying claim to the chairmanship of the APC following the court-ordered suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. All manner of court cases and orders are flying around contesting party decisions and National Working Committee positions. Factions are festering at the national level and many states. “The several court cases and orders over the national leadership of the party have put the party in a standstill and is a legal threat to forthcoming elections in Edo and Ondo states.” The APC deputy spokesman, while reacting to the claim by Giadom to the position of acting National Chairman, said: “Not too long ago, Victor Giadom claimed the position of the National Secretary now he is claiming the chairmanship. It is unfortunate that Victor Giadom is being used as a destabilizing agent by fifth columnists. On what ground is Victor Giadom claiming chairmanship of the Party when he long ceased to be a member of the National Working Committee following his resignation to contest as the Rivers State Deputy Governorship candidate in the 2019 elections. Whatever waiver Victor Giadom is brandishing cannot stand as the Constitution and INEC guidelines require resignation from public office to contest general elections, which Victor Giadom did by resigning as Deputy National Secretary. APC crisis: Party deputy spokesman urges Buhari to convene emergency NEC meeting APC crisis: Nabena wants President Buhari to step in Anxiety as Oshiomhole knows fate Tuesday