The APC in Edo State has said its direct mode of primary election will hold today despite the ban on mass gathering by the Edo State Government. The party said it did not need the permission of the state government to hold its preferred mode of primary election. Recall that Gov. Obaseki had on May 28, signed a gazette stipulating that only indirect primary could be held in the state and in only one location in Benin. A chieftain in the David Imuse led-faction of the APC in the state (Adams Oshiomhole’s camp), Henry Idahagbon, said the party was fully prepared for the governorship primary. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. Idahagbon said, “By tomorrow (today) we will conduct our direct primary and we will have a candidate. We already have a candidate, but we will just formalise it tomorrow. “Whatever gazette the governor has signed, he has breached it because we have seen him with over 500 persons within the week. And if the governor can breach the law, you don’t expect others to respect it.” The faction led by Aslem Ojezua said they were not aware that the APC was holding its primary election in the state. Daily Trust reports that Ojezua is of the camp of Obaseki in APC, although Obaseki has joined PDP, Ojezua has remained in the APC. Ojezua said, “They are jokers, the person who set up the primary election committee is not the acting chairman; that was why we rejected the committee when it was set up after our meeting. The man who should tell us what to do as acting chairman is Victor Giadom; recognised by law. “So they are just wasting their time, whatever they do in respect of the primary is a nullity.” However, the Edo State Government has said that it will  enforce the laws and regulations put in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus. It charged political parties to restrict the conduct of their primary elections within the protocols and provisions of the state’s COVID-19 Quarantine Regulations and Gazette on political gatherings. The Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie, in a statement, noted that the state would ensure compliance. “The Edo State Government is calling on all political parties holding primary elections to restrict themselves to conducting their activities within the protocols and regulations provided for in the Edo State Coronavirus (COVID-19) Quarantine Regulations and the Government’s Gazette on political gatherings during this pandemic. Also, Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State led Edo State APC, Governorship Primary Election Committee, said the primary election will be conducted in strict compliance with Edo State’s extant law prohibiting gathering of more than twenty people. Meanwhile, the police, through its spokesman, Chidi Nwanbuzor, said they were ready for the exercise. Nwanbuzor told Daily Trust that the state Commissioner of Police, Babatunde Johnson Kokumo, had made adequate security arrangement for the exercise.  Obaseki kicks as INEC approves direct primary for Edo Edo: Oshiomohole wins as INEC approves direct primaries for APC APC disqualifies Obaseki, camp holds emergency meeting today