27-year-old Chima Okechukwu Ogbuagu is the Caretaker Chairman, Afikpo South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. He is the youngest council chairman in the state. In this interview, he identified inferiority complex and fear as some of the challenges hindering Nigerian youths from venturing into mainstream politics. Excerpt: As a youth in Nigeria politics, do you see yourself as being too young to serve? No! A former Military Head of State Gen. Yakubu Gowon ruled Nigeria at the age of 27; so why would my own be different? When people talk about “this boy is a small boy and he is the chairman of Afikpo South Local Government Area”, I see it as inferiority complex. I’m a graduate of Public Administration from Abia State University and if not for COVID-19 pandemic, I would have started my Masters there too. I have already been offered admission before this pandemic came. So, been a graduate, coupled with the fact that I’m exposed as a former coordinator of Development Centre and Special Assistant to a former council chairman on political matters and also as a students’ union leader through my days in the university, I have all it take to serve in the capacity I am today. There is no position I cannot occupy today as far as the constitution of this country permits me. So, I don’t see myself as too young or small to serve. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. Many Nigerian youth are not lucky as you to occupy this kind of position today; what do you think is the problem? I think the problem facing Nigerian youth when it comes to participating in active politics is that of inferiority complex and background. Another problem is fear and lack of self confidence. Fear is the number one thing that kills their political ambitions. For instance, I was trained to see the president and if Mr. President is not comfortable with my presence, he will ask for my excuse. In the last election, I did a poster announcing my intention to contest for the state house of assembly election. When I did that, I posted it on social media and people started commenting; you this small boy, you just finished university and you are contesting. But I told them that my reason is because the person who is representing me in Afikpo South East constituency cannot do better than me and I continued projecting my ambition. It was because of pressures from above that forced me to step down. What are your plans for the people of Afikpo South now that you have been appointed to head the council? One thing I think any person should do as the chairman of an LGA is the security of the people. This is because, if the people are not safe, they would not live to see the good works the government has for them, and that is where I started. Secondly, the people believe in what they can see such as good projects particularly roads. Currently, we have an ongoing road project in the council which was initiated by the former council Chaiman, Barr. Enyi Chima and we are still doing it. Also, in Etiti where I hail from, there is a river that needs a bridge and we have concluded plans to construct a bridge there so as to make it easy for farmers to farm in that area. Another thing is that we are going to renovate the town hall in my place by the end of this month. We will also do the road and drainage too. So I have many things to do within the short time of my stay in office. I’m going to leave a legacy behind. What about agriculture? Yes! But already, the state has captured over 1,000 rice farmers and 2,000 cassava farmers who they will give loan to farm this season. But we at the council, we have brought together all the farmers in Afikpo South so that they will access our soft loan which would help them carry out farming activities this season. We are also looking out for farmers in the area of livestock such as piggery, poultry and fishery, etc. Again, youth will be the most beneficiaries of this programme. This is because, 75 percent of our youths are doing nothing and we will capture them in the project in order to channel their talents to something meaningful. Cultism is a big challenge in your council area, how would tackle that? The reason youths are involved in cultism is ignorance because, they are not fighting for anything per se; there is no land tussle, no money attached, or award to be given. Yes, we have a programme which I believe that many of them will benefit from. We are not going to give out cash but to engage them in skills acquisition. We will train them in the area of tailoring, shoe making, hairdressing etc and as well assist them by acquiring the materials and equipment for them to take off. Would you in anyway encourage Nigerian youth to engage in politics amidst corruption and godfatherism? Yes! One of the reasons is that we are the only group that can make the change. Politics remains the bedrock of every given society. We can make the good laws that will change our nation and this can only be achieved if we participate. So, the time when we watch from rear would soon come to an end if we join in the race. What is your take on community policing? It is the best because in community policing, everybody is involved. We know ourselves at the grassroots; our life styles and we even know the criminals. So, all we need is the law to enable it function appropriately. What is your call on Nigerian youths? My call is for them to have confidence in themselves; there is no barrier stopping them from reaching any position in life. They can even become president of this country. They should also respect the elders. South-East: Erosion continues to wash dreams away Ebonyi APC Ward/ LGA Elections: There was no parallel congress Youths lynch motorcycle owner in Afikpo North