The Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development has announced the commencement of enrollment for the batch C  N-Power programme effective, June 26. Sequel to these announcement,  below are some guidelines on how to prepare for the application when the portal is open. The N-Power application portal will be open to all eligible Nigerians at 11:45 pm on June 26, 2020 Applicants are to note that the application process is completely free and there is no application fee. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. They are however requested to read and understand all relevant information prior to applying. Applicants should note the following steps: 1. This programme is open to only applicants aged 18-35 (This means you must have been born between 1985 and 2002) 2. Before you go on to apply, ensure you have the following: 3. Once the portal re-opens for applications, Log on to www.npower.fmhds.gov.ng 4. Once you get on the application portal, you will be required to read the terms and conditions of the N-Power programme and accept that all the information provided is truthful and accurate. 5. Bio data and contact page: Fill in your surname, first name, and middle name in identical terms to your BVN information. 6. Education and Programme page: kindly indicate if you have received education or not. The N-Power programme is open to all. 7. Employment and other details page: you will be required to answer some questions and upload your government issued Identity Card. Kindly note that the acceptable Government IDs are: International passport, National ID card issued by NIMC, Valid driver’s license, Permanent voter’s card. Review and submit page: The Ministry had announced last week that Batch A will exit June 30, 2020 and Batch B will exit the programme on July 31, 2020. The programme since inception has enrolled 500,000 applicants so far. 200,000 applicants were enrolled in Batch A which started in 2016 while 300,000 from Batch B which kick started in August 2018. The beneficiaries of the N-Power scheme according to the Minister  will henceforth serve for less than 24 months. FG begins N-Power Batch C enrolment June 26 FG disengages 500,000 N-Power beneficiaries FG extends online job applications deadline