Middle East mega carrier, Emirates Airlines, has said it is ready to resume operations to Nigeria as soon as the directive to that effect is given by the Federal Government. The Regional Manager, West Africa, Afzal Parambil, disclosed this in a chat with Daily Trust, saying once the approval was given the airline was ready to serve the Nigerian market. Daily Trust reports that the Federal Government had directed the reopening of five airports in Nigeria with effect from next week, while authorities, especially the airlines, were already crossing the T’s and dotting the I’s ahead of flights resumption. However, the flights resumption, it was learnt, would first commence with domestic operations while international flights would resume at yet to be announced date. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here When asked yesterday, the Emirates Airlines official said once the green light was received to start operations, the airline would commence flights. Emirates, one of the major airlines flying to Nigeria, had yesterday (June 15) commenced passenger flights to 29 cities across its network after the United Arab Emirates (UAE) government lifted restrictions on transit passenger services. The cities are those countries where restrictions have been lifted. The airline said with travel restrictions remaining in place in most countries, customers should check entry and exit requirements before their journeys. Some of the cities where flights resumed yesterday include Bahrain, Manchester, Zurich, Vienna, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Dublin, New York JFK, Seoul, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore, Jakarta, Taipei, Hong Kong, Perth and Brisbane. Emirates had earlier on June 8, started flights from Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad for travellers from Pakistan who wished to connect onwards to other Emirates destinations. The airline said it would continue to work with UAE authorities to take a measured and phased approach to flights resumption and rebuilding connections between Dubai and the world. Emirates denies increasing scheduled flights to Abuja, Lagos Controversy over Emirates’ extra flights to Nigeria Flights resumption: Expert seeks hourly disinfection of airports