…offers expertise on Islamic Estate Planning services FBNQuest Trustees, a subsidiary of FBN Holdings Plc, has commenced offering expert guidance through its Legacy Series campaign on estate planning as an important requirement for successful wealth transfer. With the theme ‘Building a Legacy that Lasts’, the company aims to help individuals understand how to plan for the protection and seamless transfer of their assets during their lifetime and after. Commenting on the importance of estate planning, FBNQuest Trustees’ Managing Director, Adekunle Awojobi stated: “There is a decent appreciation for the importance of investing to secure one’s financial future. However, the average individual has paid little attention to the structures that are needed for the efficient management of the assets they own, and the seamless transfer of their wealth. Through the Legacy Series we have continued to drive this message, as Estate Planning must be an integral part of everyone’s plan – even if it’s one’s first property or major asset”. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The company is also offers expertise in Islamic Estate Planning services. Awojobi clarified: “We realise that Islamic Estate Planning is a dynamic and often challenging subject. The fractional approach to distributing assets might be intimidating. That’s why we have built expertise to enable us support our clients with creating Al-Wasiyya, Waqfs and other acceptable forms of charitable giving in line with the tenets of worship.” To educate the public on the principles of Islamic Estate Planning, FBNQuest Trustees has organised several webinar series to address issues such as the importance, structure and operations of Islamic Estate Planning and Administration, Wills, Zakat as a Social Institution, the concept of Waqf (an endowment made by a Muslim to a religious, educational, or charitable cause), administration of Waqf in practice, Waqf in a secular society, and the laws and regulations of Waqf.  We assist in Islamic wealth preservation, inheritance - MD FBNQuest Trustees FBN Holdings renames merchant banking, asset management coys Stanbic IBTC Trustees educating people to have a will, estate plan – Max-Gbinije