The FCT Police Command said it arrested a notorious kidnapper, Bello Saleh, of Dobi village in Gwagwalada Area Council who has been on its wanted list. In a statement, the command’s spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said the suspect was arrested at his hideout in Paiko Kore village of Gwagwalada Area Council after a manhunt. DSP Manzah said the suspect and his gang members shot and killed one Ejike Idoko of Dobi village when he tried to prevent them from kidnapping his pregnant wife. He said effort was being intensified to arrest the other members of the gang and recover firearms used by them. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. Community policing will enhance safer neighbourhoods Meanwhile, the command has said the concept of community policing is meant to engender safer neighbourhoods, contribute to peace and conflict resolution. The FCT Commissioner of Police (CP), Bala Ciroma, stated this while inaugurating the Area Command Metro Community Policing Advisory Committee (ACMCPAC), on Tuesday at the Merit House, Maitaima, Abuja. Represented by the FCT Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Augustina Ogbodo, CP Bala said the committee would play advisory role while “helping in identifying challenges and collectively proffering solutions through cross-fertilisation of ideas and information sharing.” In his acceptance speech, the Area Commander Metro, ACP Nurudeen Sabo, who is the chairman of the committee, expressed gratitude for the trust and opportunity afforded the committee to serve residents of the metropolis of the capital city. ACP Nurudeen assured that the trust reposed in them would be “held and safeguarded with sincerity of purpose,” adding that the committee members were aware that the responsibility of policing the metro was enormous, but were all determined to prevent crime; the main objective of the concept. Other members of the committee are Alhaji Nga Kupl; the Dapryi of Garki, Elder Patrick Fufeyin; Prince Ned Nwoko; Abdullahi Omaku; Chinedu Anakwe; as well as CP Lawrence Alobi (Rtd). The committee has other members drawn from security formations and religious bodies, as well as community leaders who work at the grassroots. Gunmen kill man in Gwagwalada community Man allegedly defiles 15-year-old daughter in Abuja Kidnappers of late APC ward hair’s daughter demand N5m ransom