Dangote Industries Limited (DIL) has won another award through its television commercial on the Cable Network News (CNN) detailing its business processes. The award, dubbed: “Most Compelling Agency Story”, by the World Travel Market (WTM), was won with the “Farm to Table” commercial which details the process of food metamorphosis from the farm as raw material to final process as food on the table at home. The commercial, which is part of the “Touching Lives” documentary aired weekly on CNN, was shot by the CNN International Commercial to show how Dangote – through its businesses – has been touching the lives of the people in more than one way. “We are extremely pleased to announce that Dangote Industries and CNN International Commercial are the winners of the WTM Africa Awards for the Most Compelling Agency Story,” WTM announced. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here CNN International Commercial Account Executive, Varshmi Arasalingam, said, “The organisers had entered us into this category additionally, for which this is certainly a proud moment for the entire team. “This award recognises our powerful storytelling capabilities, affirming that the Touching Lives Farm to Table campaign holds a prominent socio-economic impact for which Dangote Industries continues to empower and improve the lives of people in Africa.” WTM, in explaining the award, said in winning the Most Compelling Agency Story,” marketing and effective PR campaign in tourism industry requires exceptional expertise to effectively execute campaigns with the right story to the right people. “Dangote Industries is one of the most diversified business conglomerates in Africa, with multiple entities impacting the daily lives of most of the continent’s population. The company provides the population with employment opportunities that are also self-sustaining through basic needs, such as food, cement, construction, agriculture, and technology. “Through a branded content production, CNN International Commercial (CNNIC) wanted to showcase Dangote Industries empowering Africans through employment and self-sufficient opportunities. Filmed and produced by CNNIC’s award-winning branded content studio, the campaign promotes Nigeria and the wider continent through the stories of real people, and focuses on the connections people have with each other, be it in their work and daily lives. “The character-driven story helps to change perceptions and encourage global audiences to visit Nigeria (and the African continent more generally) so they can experience and understand its culture and hospitality.” In his comments on the award, DIL Group Chief Branding and Corporate Communications Officer, Anthony Chiejina, said the management was delighted at the award and that it only showed that the company was living up to its billing as the most diversified conglomerate in Africa. He said the commercial shot by the CNN which had won the award depicted the businesses of the company and gave vent to “how we arrive at our mission statement of meeting the expectation of the people by providing for their basic needs. It simply demonstrates how it starts from the farm through which our people are engaged in every process before it gets to table at home.” The Role Of Entrepreneurship In National Development: The Story Of The Dangote Group 2010 CNN, Multichoice African Journalist Awards launched ‘Dangote refinery, fertilizer plants ’ll boost Nigeria’s economic recovery’