Traders and shoppers in some markets in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have thrown caution to the wind as they transact businesses amid rising cases of COVID-19 in the FCT in particular and Nigeria in general. At least, as at yesterday, 1,549 people have been infected with the virus while 475 have recovered, 28 have died in the FCT. But residents have begun to let their guard down as both shoppers and traders across markets seem to ignore measures put in place by government to curb the spread of the virus. At the Wuse and Utako markets, our reporters observed that the use of face mask and social distancing were flouted. Most of the residents wore the masks on their jaws and around their necks. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. One of the traders at the Wuse Market, Victor, said people were tired of wearing face mask. Victor said, “I don tire for the thing abeg. To breathe with the mask is difficult,” adding that he was within his shop and so had no need for a face mask. A guard at the market who pleaded anonymity said there was a task force that enforced compliance within the market and that when attention was drawn to people moving without face masks, “They will catch them.” But City News observed that there were no strict measures to check the wearing of face mask at the entrance to the market as several people were entering and leaving the without face masks. At the Utako Market, observance of social distancing seemed a difficult task due to the closeness of the shops. The walkway between blocks and shops is less than two metres, thereby making it impossible to observe social distancing. A trader at the market, Mrs. Juliet, commended the government for its effort in making life easier for the residents, but said the use face mask for about eight hours posed a health threat to her. The roasted yam seller said she needed fresh air to make away with the smoke from the coal she used in roasting yam. It was also observed that in the Kuje market, life has returned to normal; everybody was going about their businesses without observing the safety protocols. Mrs. Adenike Adeleke, who spoke with our reporters, said everybody seemed to have detached themselves from the fear of COVID-19, hence not minding the use of face mask and sanitiser as it used to be in the last two months. She said though she moves around with her face mask in her bag, she no longer used it since there was no enforcement on its usage. She added that, “Besides, nobody is even wearing it again, or I should say majority of people are no longer wearing the mask.” Mrs. Adeleke further said she believed COVID-19 was no longer as contagious as it first appeared despite the rising cases being reported in the news. Another trader in the Kuje market who identified herself as Madam Chioma, said wearing of face mask was not an easy thing, adding that people were using it by force to avoid being arrested or fined. Madam Chioma said, “But now that there is no enforcement, people are now free to do what they like. Everyone is going through their businesses normally as if nothing is happening. That is Nigeria. I must also tell you that the days of lockdown, wearing of mask were not the best for Nigerians that want to go about their businesses, because without them going out, life will continue to be difficult.” At the busy AA Rano bus stop in Kuje, passengers and motorists did not bother about face mask and social distancing. One of the drivers who preferred anonymity, said they used to enforce the use of face mask, but that they had since slowed down. He said, “Then, if anybody was not wearing face mask, we would not allow him to board with others, but we don’t do that now.” However, he said when they were approaching a military check point, they would all bring out their face masks, but that immediately they passed, they removed them. Our reporters also saw that people no longer go about with sanitiser as they used to at the beginning of the spread of the virus in Nigeria. At the Karu Market, although crowds have reduced, only few shoppers complied with the use of face mask. A shopper, Yahuza Ali, who was sighted without a mask, told City News that he did not believe COVID-19 existed and that the use of face mask was therefore not necessary to him. Ali said, “We have been hearing COVID-19 from afar, I am yet to see anything that will justify to me that it exists. We have been wearing the face mask for no reason. I don’t think it’s necessary to wear this mask in places like this.” City News also observed that the use of face mask among residents has reduced except at entry points where security personnel stand to enforce the compliance. A resident, Musa Abdullahi, however, said it was discouraging that residents had totally disregarded government’s directives. He cautioned shoppers and traders on the need to comply with the face mask and social distancing directives in the interest of all Nigerians. Abdullahi said, “The number of cases are increasing by the day and people do not care about their health or safety of others; it is shocking,” and alleged that government had gone soft with the enforcement of the COVID-19 directives. The Chairman of the FCT COVID-19 Enforcement Team, Comrade Ikharo Attah, said it was bewildering that despite the rising cases in the FCT residents still flouted the safety measures. Attah, however, said the team would commence intensive enlightenment and advocacy so that the traders and shoppers could take responsibility. He said he had done advocacy in the markets but that it appeared not to be helping, and that he had discussed with market managements to intensify advocacy because it was a public health matter. Attah said, “The other serious matter is when people go to buy edible stuff without wearing hand gloves; they dip their hands in it in the name of tasting.”  Abuja residents storm markets, flout physical distancing order Food stuff prices soar as residents rush to stockpile COVID-19: Wear face mask or risk 14 days isolation — market leader