The APC, yesterday, said the credentials of its six aspirants for the Edo governorship election were displayed to forestall a repeat of the Bayelsa scenario. It would be recalled that the APC had after winning last year’s governorship election in Bayelsa lost the state to PDP at the Supreme Court following issues surrounding the certificate of its deputy governorship candidate. The credentials of the six aspirants: Governor Godwin Obaseki, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Rt. Hon. Dr. Pius Odubu, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi, Hon. Osaro Obazee and Hon. Matthew Aigbuhuenze Iduoriyekemwen were displayed at the party’s secretariat in Abuja The National Publicity Secretary of APC, Mallam Issa- Onilu, said, “You will recall what happened in Bayelsa, we thought we did the best we should, but it turned out that we did not do enough. So, the best thing we have to do now is to go beyond ourselves to the things that may not be known to us. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “Besides the fact that we have put it out here for anybody who has information to help the screening committee, we are also taking official steps to verify some of these documents to be sure that we do the right thing and we come out clean” Meanwhile, Gov. Godwin Obaseki has approved the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium for the governorship primary of the PDP for the forthcoming governorship election in the state. The PDP has fixed its governorship primary in the state for 19 and 20 of this June. In a statement, the state Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Chris Osa Nehikhare, said PDP was a law abiding party in the state and noted that the mode of the party’s primary was indirect in compliance with the COVID-19 regulations in the state. Similarly, a F‎ederal High Court sitting in Benin yesterday adjourned to Thursday an exparte motion seeking to restrain the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC and the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, from using direct primary to elect the party’s governorship candidate . Also joined in the suit‎, is the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Edo poll: Obaseki will emerge APC candidate - Gov Fintiri Edo: APC displays Obaseki, Ize-Iyamu, other aspirants' credentials Edo governorship: Plot to disqualify Obaseki thickens