Three months after he was deposed as Emir of Kano, a Federal High Court sitting in Kano has approved the move by Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate Malam Muhammadu Sanusi II over alleged N2.2 billion land scam. Daily Trust had exclusively reported in March that the then Emir was facing fresh investigation by the anti-graft agency over alleged sale of landed properties belonging to the Kano Emirate Council. The anti-graft commission had accused the former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN of authorizing the ‘illegal sale’ of landed properties at Darmanawa, Hotoro and Bubbugaje. The deposed Emir however approached the Court where he got a restraining order against the Commission from inviting and investigating him on the matter pending the hearing and determination of the originating summons. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here However, Justice Lewis Allagoa, on Tuesday dismissed Sanusi’s fundamental human right suit, saying that the anti-graft commission and its chairman have the jurisdiction and powers to probe him on the matter. According to the anti-graft agency Commission, the dethroned Emir ‘illegally’ sold a land with a Right of Occupancy Number: CON-RES-2016-503 to Family Home Fund Limited, adding that the transactions were done by the trio of Shehu Dankadai (Sarkin Shanu), Sarki Ibrahim (Makanan Kano) and Mustapha Yahaya (Dan Isan Lapai). During his reign, Sanusi was at loggerhead with the governor of the state,  Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. In 2017, the emirate council under Sanusi was investigated for corruption but the investigation was later called off by the state legislature following intervention of prominent Nigerians. In 2019, Ganduje signed into law the creation of four new emirates. This unprecedented move saw Sanusi’s traditional domain as emir reduced. According to the law, the Kano emir will only preside over 10 local government areas out of the 44 in the state. In March, the state legislators launched a new investigation on Sanusi for violation of traditional practices. Sanusi was on March 9, dethroned as Emir of Kano and banished to Nasarawa State by the Kano State Government over alleged disrespect to lawful instructions from the authorities and refusal to attend official programmes and meetings organised by government. Sanusi asks for new date to honour Kano anti-corruption agency's invitation Kano anti-graft agency invites Emir Sanusi over alleged N2.2bn land scam Court restrains Kano anti-corruption commission from investigating Emir Sanusi