The Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman, has announced Dr. Nnaemeka Ewelukwa, as the new Managing Director/CEO for the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading PLC (NBET). Ewelukwa replaces Dr. Marilyn Amobi whose tenure elapses in July 2020. A statement by the minister’s spokesman, Aaron Artimas, on Monday said, the new appointment was in furtherance of the reorganisation and realignments in the power sector. Until his appointment, Dr. Ewelukwa was the company’s General Counsel and Secretary. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “He is to succeed Dr. Marilyn Amobi, as substantive Managing Director/CEO, while the former MD is to handover and proceed on terminal leave with immediate effect. “President Muhammadu Buhari had earlier approved the recommendation to this effect,” Engr. Mamman said in the statement. Daily Trust reports that Engr. Mamman had in December 2019 directed that the erstwhile MD, Dr. Amobi stepped down over myriads of complaints. The minister also raised a five man committee to investigate the complaints against Amobi that include overriding superior officers’ decisions. Barely 24 hours after the directive was issued, NBET confirmed in a statement that Dr. Ewelukwa, a General Manager, and the pioneer General Counsel and Company Secretary at NBET took charge of the agencies’ operations. Dr. Ewelukwa has been there at the establishment of NBET by the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) as a bulk electricity trader in the nascent electricity market. Ewelukwa has been part of the executive management team at NBET and has over 20 years of professional experience spanning private practice, academia and currently, public service. Prior to joining NBET, he served as a Technical Adviser on electricity regulatory and transaction issues with the Presidential Task Force on Power (PTFP} set up by the federal government to lead the implementation of the reform roadmap for the power sector. He has led NBET’s negotiations with Independent Power Producers (IPPs) and the development of Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs} at NBET, paving the way for billions of dollars in additional private sector investments in the electric power sector. Dr. Ewelukwa is also a co-author of three globally acclaimed handbooks on electricity transactions. A qualified  lawyer  by training,  Dr. Ewelukwa holds  an undergraduate law  degree  from the  University  of  Nigeria, a Master of Laws degree  in International Business Law, from the  London  School of  Economics  and  Political  Science (LSE} and  a  Ph.D in  Law  from Queen  Mary, University  of  London, with  specialisation   on  privatisation   and  the  legal reform  of the Nigerian  power  sector. He is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators.  Ewelukwa heads NBET as Marilyn proceeds on terminal leave JUST IN: Ewelukwa takes over at NBET as Amobi steps down Ewelukwa takes over at NBET