The increase in the import duty for meter devices and other implementation hiccups have stalled the installation of over 700,000 meters in the first phase of the Meter Assets Providers (MAP) scheme. Under the phase, which commenced in May 2019, the DisCos were to present 1.023 million meters for testing by the Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA), the agency statutorily mandated to test and certify meters for deployment in the power sector. However, only 273,000 meters had been tested and certified by NEMSA, while about 750,000 others are yet to be deployed by MAP companies appointed by the DisCos to install meters, due to the high import duties and the coronavirus pandemic. The Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED) in a statement at the weekend advocated “an urgent need for the government to intervene so that there will be more meters available to be installed.” Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. The association’s Executive Director, Research and Advocacy, Barr. Sunday Oduntan, said some MAP companies can install 3,000 meters daily for the DisCos if the meters were available. “These are separate companies but DisCos support MAP and we want them to succeed. There should be zero percent import duty on meters. The high import duty at the ports is killing the power sector.” Oduntan also said if customers are metered, they would be happy as the estimated billing method was affecting the DisCos’ revenue collection drive. According to him, the DisCos cannot be blamed for the current slow process of providing meters for their customers as that role was alienated to the MAP companies since the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) implemented the MAP regulation in 2019. The DisCos top player said if the government failed to intervene, the NERC order that DisCos should provide meters for all electricity consumers by 2021 may not be realistic. However, the Minister of State for Power, Mr. Goddy Jedy-Agba, said recently that the government was considering a solution soon, assuring that “government is working now to resolve this issue so that meters can be available.” High import duty, others stall over 700,000 meter deployment NEMSA to test, certify 5.5m meters for installation in 4yrs Tariff hike: Meter scarcity persists 2 days to policy take-off