The Ekiti State Police Command has arrested a man, Abdusalam Olalekan, for allegedly stealing uniform belonging to the  National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) and using it to impersonate as a Youth Corps member in the state. Olalekan, who was arrested on May 10, 2020 by operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) during a patrol along Atikankan Area of Ado-Ekiti, was said to have confessed to be a fake NYSC member. A statement released in Ado Ekiti yesterday by the Command’s Police Commissioner, Mr Asuquo Amba, said the suspect also confessed to have burgled the apartment of one Abdulsalam Ibrahim at Aghenebode, Edo State, and stolen one NYSC fez cap and a pair of NYSC boots. “The suspect had, during the burglary, stolen one identity card of the Olabisi Onabanjo University belonging to Akinlabi Teslimat Damilola, as well as an identity card of the Kebbi State University and a National Youth Service Corps identity card both belonging to Abdulsalam Ibrahim. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “The suspect will be handed over to the Edo State Police Command for prosecution,” Amba said. The Police Commissioner said his men also nabbed Abdullahi Kabiru and Obaro Tunde, both from Ife Olukotun village, Yagba East Local Government, Kogi State, for allegedly assaulting police constable Awoniyi Lawrence in Omuo-Ekiti. “The two suspects, who falsely identified themselves as Captains in the Nigerian Army attached to the 44 Battalion in Niger State, assaulted the constable, beat him mercilessly and threatened to break his head. “The constable called for reinforcement, which led to the arrest of the two suspects. During interrogation, the suspects confessed to be fake soldiers and claimed that the Army uniform belonged to one of their brothers,” Amba said. He added that his men also arrested a motorcycle parts’ seller, Emeka Ukwueze, allegedly for breaking into the shop of Ejiofor Osai, located on Nova road, Abeyo, Ado-Ekiti, and carting away different kinds of motorcycle/generator parts. Amba listed materials Ukwueze allegedly  stole during the burglary as a timing chain, a socket-and-chain, an engine valve, a battery, a Chinoki bulb, a piston, a four-minute gum, an engine bearing and a clutch cable valued at N200,000. He said, “Upon investigation, it was discovered that Ukwueze had restocked his shop with all the goods stolen from Ejiofor Osai’s shop. “He confessed to the commission of the crime, and during a search in his shop and premises, all the stolen goods were recovered therein, among other goods reasonably suspected to have been stolen. “Further investigation by the SARS revealed that Emeka Ukwueze is a serial burglar who had broken into the shop of Ejiofor about seven times and carted away the sum of N420,000 and different types of motorcycle/generator parts worth N1.5 million”. The police Commissioner added that the SARS operatives also arrested one 28-year-old Abdulmunmin Arafat over alleged membership of the Aiye secret cult. “One phone was found in his possession, which he confessed to have been using to communicate with other members of the Aiye secret cult that were involved in the ongoing killing of other rival secret confraternity groups in Ogun, Lagos  and other states in Nigeria,” he said.  6 suspected fake corps members arrested in Katsina Nasarawa: Police to prosecute two fake corps members for forgery Police arrest fake corps members in Nasarawa