The Managing Director of Sigma Pensions Limited, Mr. Dave Uduanu, has said the success in the pensions industry can be replicated to other struggling sectors to achieve a widened economic growth. Uduanu made the point when he spoke on Nigerian success stories in a panel with other distinguished business leaders at the digital dialogue organised by BusinessDay. He said the reforms that birthed the successes in the pension industry that should be replicated include adequate capitalisation, good corporate governance, the right policies, and a renewed interest in enhancing domestic investments. He highlighted that one sector struggling is the power sector, which he proffers is in need of adequate capitalisation. Dear our valued reader, we would like to hear your view about a membership club that we plan to launch. Kindly help us fill this survey. He said: “On the power sector, I think one of the things we have seen is that we have players who are not well capitalised and therefore overleveraged so they are struggling.” “One of the things regulators must do beyond the technical assessment is also the commercial assessment but more importantly is to encourage players and companies who are already successful to either come into this sector or to back entrepreneurs coming to this sector with capital. I think well capitalised operators would be very important and we have seen that happen in banking and in pension.” Speaking on domestic investors, he said we the government needs to encourage companies to achieve scale. “It is important because we have a lot of fragmentation is some of these industries and we have companies that have achieved scale and they can become national and regional leaders. We can see what Dangote is doing in the area of cement and also what Nigerian banks are doing. We can also have Nigerian insurance and pension companies dominant in the local environment and then go regional.” He advocated a combination of well-capitalised operators, domestic operators who are building businesses of scale and the need to encourage companies to build strong corporate governance standards. Sigma CEO tasks manufacturers on output for economic growth Corporate governance hindering access to pension fund – Sigma CEO All workers need to save for retirement-Expert