Police in Ogun State have arrested a village head, Rasheed Sholabi, allegedly for defiling his 15-year-old daughter. Sholabi is the Baale of Oose Agbedu Ajibawo, in Owode-Yewa, Yewa South Local Government area of the state. It was gathered that the police arrested the village head following a report by the daughter, who was said to have walked into the Owode Egbado police station to lodge a complaint against her father to the effect that he had been sexually molesting her. A statement the Ogun State police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, issued yesterday in Abeokuta quoted the girl as saying that her father had been having sex with her since she was 11 years old. The girl reportedly said she had been finding it difficult to control her urinary system because of the abuse. “The victim told the police she lost her mother when she was barely two years old and that the suspect did not allow her to know any of her mother’s relations, thereby leaving her with no option other than to continue staying with her father, who used that opportunity to be sexually abusing her from time to time,” Oyeyemi stated. The PPRO said that following the complaint, the Owode-Egbado Divisional Police Officer, Superintendent Olabisi Elebute, led her men to arrest Sholabi. The police spokesman said the suspect initially denied the allegation during interrogation but fainted when his daughter confronted him and he was shown a statement by his former wife corroborating the allegation. “His ex-wife informed the police that she had caught him red-handed while having sex with his daughter and that was the reason she left him,” Oyeyemi said. He added that the victim had been taken to the Stella Obasanjo Motherless Babies Home for safety. Oyeyemi added that the Ogun State Commissioner of Police, Edward A. Ajogun, had ordered the transfer of the suspect to the Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Labour Unit of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and diligent prosecution. Village head allegedly rapes 15-year-old daughter in Ogun '44- year-old pastor rapes own daughter, aborts pregnancy thrice' 44-year-old pastor allegedly rapes daughter, aborts pregnancy thrice