Former Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa, yesterday, said he should not be blamed for the loss suffered by the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara State because he was not the one that dragged the party to court. Marafa, a two-time senator and governorship aspirant of the APC in the 2019 general elections, was reacting to the allegation that he played the role a spoiler. In an interview in Abuja, he alleged that it was the camp of former governor of the state, Abdulaziz Yari that initiated the litigation that cost APC Zamfara State during the 2019 general elections. Litigations between camps of the APC over the party’s primary election made the party to lose the governorship, three senatorial seats, seven House of Representatives seats and 24 state House of Assembly seats to PDP. But in an interview, Marafa said Yari was the one that instituted a suit at the Zamfara State High Court and made three prayers. “He asked the court to declare his primary elections legal, compel APC national headquarters to accept the results of his illegal primary elections and forward the results to INEC and to compel INEC to accept the forwarded results and allow the candidates to participate in the general elections. The court granted all his prayers. “We went to Court of Appeal Sokoto and challenged the ruling. The three judges of the Court of Appeal unanimously quashed and threw out the judgement of the lower court. “Not satisfied, Yari appealed to the Supreme Court, and in its judgement, the apex court did not only agree with the Court of Appeal but went further to declare APC votes wasted and awarded N10 million cost in our favour! “So, who is the aggressor and spoiler in chief? Who caused the problem, I ask you? When did self-defence become a crime in this country?” he said. Marafa caused our loss in Zamfara – Zamfara APC chair However, the Chairman of the APC in Zamfara State, Alhaji Lawali M. Liman, has blamed Marafa for the party’s loss. He said, “We won our elections fair and square and he decided to go to court and the court eventually ruled against the party. Why then should he say he wasn’t behind the conflict in the party in the state? For reasons best known to him, he made the party to lose all the seats it won after the court upturned our victory. “After the judgement of the Supreme Court, we were asked to pay certain fees, and based on that the party’s accounts were garnished on his request. So for Senator Marafa to say he wasn’t the brain behind the conflict is ridiculous. Forget about what happened during the party primaries. We put the matter behind us and forged by going for elections” After Koguna’s loss, what next for Yari in Zamfara? Marafa, Jaji disagree on Yari’s APC peace parley APC crisis deepens, Buhari, Oshiomhole’s states worst hit