The FCT police command has arrested four suspects over car theft and recovered seven fabricated master keys from them. The command also apprehended four other suspects over drug peddling around Kabusa and Gwarinpa axis in Abuja. A statement by the command spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said the suspects were arrested by the operatives of the Anti-kidnaping squad on patrol along the Utako-Berger axis of Abuja. He said the suspects, whom he gave their names as Zakari Kaura, Sirajo Ibrahim, Usman Adamu and Tasiu Abdullahi, have confessed to their involvement in the theft of over 10 vehicles along the axis. He said the suspects further confessed that most of the stolen vehicles were sold outside Nigeria, adding that exhibits recovered from them included an immobile Pontiac Vibe, seven locally made master keys. He said efforts were being intensified to recover the stolen vehicles from the suspects. Manzah also explained that the other four suspects Ahmad Ibrahim, Abubakar Sadiq, Sanni Abdullahi and Anas Ibrahim, were arrested by the police operatives from the command’s Anti-Narcotics Unit, during a routine raid of black spots in the area. He said exhibits recovered from the suspects included 120 wraps of dried leaves suspected to be Indian hemp and illicit drugs, such as diazepam tablets and tramadol. Manzah said the suspects would be handed over to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for further investigation and prosecution. He further disclosed that the operatives from the Anti -one chance unit of the command arrested a member of a three-man syndicate, Ademola Olarewanju, who specialises in defrauding unsuspecting victims. He said the suspect was arrested at his hideout in Galadimawa, and has confessed to posing as a herb seller to lure his victims whom he had defrauded of about N2 million. He said exhibits recovered from the suspect included three native pots, pieces of white clothes and bottles of herbs concoction. Abuja: 53 suspects paraded over kidnapping, robbery, cultism Police parade 40 suspected armed robbers in Abuja Police nab robbery, cultism suspects at Kubwa