The Chairman, Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers, Oba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi, has called on all levels of government, philanthropists and corporate bodies in Nigeria to fund and equip the Nigeria Police to enable it meet the security challenges in the various communities. Oba Alabi, who is the Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, made the appeal in his palace at Ilawe Ekiti on Wednesday while welcoming the new Commissioner of Police, Ekiti State, Mr Babatunde Mobayo, who paid him a courtesy visit. The traditional ruler said Nigerians should not leave the funding of the police to the federal government alone, adding that it was embarrassing that many police divisions in the country, including that in Ilawe Ekiti, could not boast of serviceable patrol vans. Oba Alabi welcomed the idea of community policing, saying traditional rulers and the locals knew the nooks and crannies of their communities better. He assured Mr Mobayo of the cooperation of all monarchs in Ekiti State in tackling security challenges. The Alawe told the new Police Commissioner that Ekiti State had been relatively peaceful because of the cooperation of the state government and people with the immediate past police Commissioner, Amba Asuquo, and promised Mobayo that the same hand of fellowship would be extended to him. Oba Alabi advised the new Commissioner of Police to handle chieftaincy disputes in the state with caution, and with respect to tradition. Mobayo said the courtesy call on the Alawe was the first to a traditional ruler in Ekiti State since he assumed office, stressing that he believed so much in community policing and would encourage it in Ekiti State. He solicited the support of traditional rulers in the state in making his job there a success. Mobayo further said that policemen in the state had been informed that they should adopt the alternative dispute resolution mechanism as much as possible in resolving disagreements and quarrels among the people “in everybody’s overall interest.” Ekiti monarch warns hoteliers against harbouring criminals …Oba Alabi, urges Ekiti people to adhere to govt’s instructions Ekiti govt queries 11 ‘Pelupelu’ traditional rulers over alleged insubordination