Nigeria’s biggest carrier Air Peace has confirmed the sack of some of its staff due to the “devastating effect of COVID-19 pandemic. The airline said it took the “very painful but rightful decision, in the circumstances the airline has found itself as a result of the devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on its operations and financial health.” In a statement, the airline said: “This decision was taken for the greater good of the company and its almost 3000 workforce, the affected pilots inclusive. “The airline cannot afford to toe the path of being unable to continue to fulfil its financial obligations to its staff, external vendors, aviation agencies, maintenance organizations, insurance companies, banks and other creditors hence the decision to restructure its entire operations with a view to surviving the times. “The pandemic has hit every airline worldwide so badly that it has become very impossible for airlines to remain afloat without carrying out an internal restructuring of their costs. “Anything short of what we have done may lead to the collapse of an airline as could be seen in some places worldwide during this period. “Therefore, we decided to review the salaries being paid to all staff. The new salaries reflect a 0%-40% cut of the former salary depending on the salary grades of every staff. “Even after the cuts, it was obvious that for us to be able to sustain our operations and survive the times, some jobs must inevitably have to go. “Air Peace has never, for one day, ever owed salaries to its workers in its almost six years of existence, pilots inclusive. Rather the management of Air Peace has always been known to be increasing salaries of its employees periodically without being prompted by staff. “In fact, in one fell swoop, Air Peace increased the salaries of pilots by over 100% in one day! Our salaries have always been paid even before the end of the month in the last five years! So we love all our staff.” According to the airline, the decision is inevitable under the circumstances it found itself. “In order to protect the continuity of the majority of the existing jobs and the possibility of creating new ones in future, the survival of the airline is of paramount importance. “When everything comes back to normal those pilots affected today will have a place to come back to in the future if they so wish. “The decision is a reflection of the negative impact of the pandemic on airlines and aviation worldwide. We are in trying times. “Even the biggest airlines in Europe, America, Middle East, Asia, Australia and, indeed, Africa, are all either slashing jobs and cutting salaries in order to remain afloat or are shutting down. Air Peace is not immune to these challenges.” Nigerian gives birth onboard evacuation flight from Dubai Air Peace sacks pilots as talk over pay cut collapses COVID-19 sends jitters to banks, airlines