Ahead of the September governorship election in Edo State, residents have expressed worry over how political parties are conducting campaigns amid the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic in the state. The state has recorded a total of 2,300 cases, with 83 deaths, while 1,394 victims were discharged after treatment. All the political parties, especially the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have been moving round rural areas to present their candidates to the people. Although the APC is yet to flag off its campaign in Benin, it has been going to other parts of the state. When the PDP flagged off its campaigns, there was adherence to COVID-19 protocols, especially wearing of facemasks, use of sanitisers and physical distancing. But in their subsequent campaigns, it was observed that though the leaders of the party still observed the protocols, the crowds neither wore facemasks nor observed physical distancing. Both parties have embarked on ward-to-ward campaigns as part of measures to minimise crowds, but despite that, huge crowds were recorded. This week, the PDP took its campaign train to Akoko-Edo and other areas in Edo north senatorial district. A mammoth crowd attended. During the campaign, Governor Godwin Obaseki said the ward-to-ward method adopted by his party was in strict compliance with COVID-19 protocols as recommended by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He said it was the first of its kind by any registered political party. He kept reminding the people of the pandemic and the need for caution because they must first be alive to exercise their franchise during the forthcoming election. To demonstrate the seriousness his administration has attached to the pandemic, the governor personally supervised the delivery of customised facemasks and sanitisers to all the wards in the local government, for onward distribution to the people. The APC is also not adhering to COVID-19 protocols in their campaigns. During its rally in Fugar, the headquarters of Etsako West Local Government, there was massive crowd; hence the people did not observe physical distancing. Many of them did not wear facemasks. It was also observed that town hall meetings at the grassroots attracted large crowds, against the 50 persons approved by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Leaders of the political parties keep telling their supporters to observe COVID-19 protocols, but they keep ignoring the advice. It is believed that with the way the campaigns are going, many people might be infected with the virus if the crowds are not checked. Those who spoke to Daily Trust Saturday expressed divergent views on the compliance to COVID-19 protocols, especially at the grassroots. Dada Ayokhai, a resident who spoke to our correspondent on the development, noted that it was not really easy to adhere to the protocols during political campaigns. “The two major political parties in Edo State, the PDP and APC, are putting measures in place to ensure that all the protocols are complied with during the campaigns. When Governor Godwin Obaseki emerged as the flag-bearer of the PDP, the NCDC raised the alarm over a possible rise in COVID-19 cases in the state,’’ Ayokhai said. He said it was necessary to take a critical look at the activities of the parties and their major actors, adding that they should have learnt a lesson from the crowds witnessed during the primaries. “It has been noticed that during the campaigns, party officials use facemasks and hand sanitisers, but that is not the case with their supporters,’’ he added. According to him, even when given protective kits, most of the supporters would not use them. Another resident who gave his name as Osayuwa said the parties observed COVID-19 protocols at the city centre, but it is not the same thing at the grassroots. “They are not observing COVID-19 protocols at the grassroots. If you watch the social media video when Comrade Adams Oshiomhole entered Edo north, the crowd was much and there was no physical distancing. Many of them were not even wearing facemasks. The PDP is also guilty of the same offence as most of its campaigns in rural areas are usually crowded,’’ he said. He urged the leaderships of various parties to prevail on their supporters to adhere strictly to COVID-19 protocols. Meanwhile, the publicity secretary of the PDP in the state, Chris Nehikhare, said the state government and his party were taking the issue of COVID-19 seriously. “In all our campaigns, we instructed that there should not be more than 20 persons, and all the people should wear facemasks. We are sending this message to our people because their health is our concern. “When we flagged off our campaigns, we only invited 300 persons and had to sit on alternate chairs to observe physical distancing. People sanitised their hands before entering the stadium. Facemasks were also distributed and everybody was made to wear it so as to prevent the spread of the virus,’’ Nehikhare said. He added that the PDP would not jeopardise the health of the people; hence they are embarking on house-to-house campaigns. On his part, the chairman, Edo State APC Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki, said the party was observing COVID-19 protocols in all its campaigns. He said they were aware of the times we are in; hence they understood their roles and obligations to the society as far as the virus is concerned. According to him, the party is also using other avenues like the social media, radio and television to read the electorate.  INEC to conduct 1st election under COVID-19 Saturday Ondo 2020: APC, PDP, 15 others adopt indirect primaries COVID-19 alters campaign strategy ahead of Edo guber