Rogers Nwoke recently ended his tenure as the President of the National Association of Microfinance Banks (NAMB). In this interview, he reflects on various issues affecting micro financing in Nigeria, particularly the critical role MFBs play in deepening financial inclusion. What was your experience as the President of NAMB? It was an experience I will best describe as challenging, yet rewarding, considering the many lessons in leadership that came with it. The association is made up of over 900 Micro Finance Banks (MFBs); each represented by its chairman of board and its managing director. So, you are typically leading and managing a group of almost 2,000 people of diverse ethnic, religious, social and professional backgrounds. These banks are made up of 10 national banks, 134 state banks and more than 700 unit banks. According to their strata, their interests and business strategies pose diverse challenges to manage. So, whatever the issues are at stake, diverse interests crop up and your ability to achieve some level of congruence helps in resolving the issues; that is a very difficult challenge to overcome. You also have the challenge of dealing with the battered reputation of the micro finance subsector, and it has a severe impact on your ability to break through negotiations, fighting for recognition and managing expectations of all stakeholders. So, leading a complex association like NAMB is very interesting and you learn with each new experience. Despite the invaluable objectives of the National Financial Inclusion Strategy (NFIS) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), millions of Nigerians are excluded. What do you think is responsible for this? Nigeria has made good progress in increasing the inclusion rate. Unfortunately, we have not been able to hit the 2020 target of achieving a 20 per cent exclusion rate. A financial system that will go to any length to attract savings from the poor but will not give the poor access to credit is skewed in favour of the banks and government who lend these funds to large corporates. Several reasons may be adduced for the country’s inability to meet the target of 20 per cent set for the year 2020, but the most significant is the inability of MFBs to cover the rural areas effectively. This is because of the failure of the government to involve MFBs in the various intervention programmes targeted at the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Micro finance remains the strongest and most effective tool to achieve financial inclusion, and unless we equip the MFBs to deliver on this promise, achieving full scale inclusion will be difficult to come by. Look at all the Federal Government interventions in the MSMEs’ sector and show me how MFBs have been given opportunities of participation, but yet, they are the closest to the grassroots. There is also the inability of the country to properly coordinate and align the activities of all the agencies and institutions in the financial inclusion space. Different people are doing different things and going in different directions; all in the pursuit of financial inclusion. One of the initiatives you championed was the setting up of the Microfinance Development Bank Limited (MDBL). How is this company expected to support MFBs? The MDBL is a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to embark on initiatives that will impact positively on the development of the microfinance subsector. One of the core areas of activity is to enhance the liquidity of the MFBs. From available CBN data, the MFBs’ cumulatively have a liquidity ratio of more than 90 per cent, but this is unevenly distributed. Whereas a few MFBs, constituting about 15 per cent, contribute more than 80 per cent of the liquidity of the sector, majority of the MFBs lack adequate working capital to support their operations. There is currently no platform for liquidity training for the MFBs, while any free cash flow is dumped on commercial banks, which have no sectoral allocation of credit to the MFB sector. It is also a problem for most MFBs to attract long-term funding. MDCL will work to support the smaller banks with wholesale funds which can then be available as on-lending facilities. So far, MDBL has secured a N7bn global facility from Stanbic IBTC and some MFBs are at different levels of processing their individual facilities. MDBL is currently in discussion with Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBSS) to bring all MFBs on the NIBSS Instant Payment (NIP) platform as a first step towards the digitisation of their operations. The firm is owned by about 41 MFBs, while sale of shares is ongoing. NAMB is working on an online trading platform project in collaboration with the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). How will this impact on MFBs? The MDBL is at the concluding stages of floating a liquidity trading platform for MFBs in collaboration with the NSE, the Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) and Infoware Limited. When operational, MFBs can access short-term funding of between zero to180 days. The MDBL will provide collateral support for smaller MFBs who may not have enough Treasury Bills (T-Bills) and other short-term securities to support their trading. At the 10th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of NAMB, your leadership presented a proposal to establish a stabilisation account for members. What informed that idea? Before now, the association and indeed the subsector had no long-term fund structure to support strategic long-term initiatives and sector bailout support. The microfinance supervisory guidelines provide for a 10 per cent investment in T-Bills from a bank’s deposit base, but the association practically spends all its revenue in running its operations. The NAMB stabilisation fund was approved at the 10th AGM and will take effect from January, 2021. The fund is expected to grow to become a source of bailout funds for MFBs. The sustainability of the fund will be strengthened with regulatory support in the form of legislative backing for MFBs to invest a percentage of the total deposits into the fund which will be managed by a first-class fund manager and a Tier 1 commercial bank as custodian. NAMB recently solicited the support of CBN for another N250bn to be disbursed by qualified MFBs to MSMEs. Why this request when the N220bn MSMEs fund is yet to be fully disbursed? One of the failings of the National Microfinance Policy is the inability of the CBN to establish the Microfinance Development Fund. MFBs have continued to struggle to remain liquid in a market for deposits that is highly skewed in favour of commercial banks. Even the various intervention schemes of the CBN have significantly left out MFBs. The N220bn MSMEDF was supposed to support MFBs with access to working capital finance to the MSME sector. Unfortunately, MFBs received less than 10 per cent of the fund, while state governments and commercial banks took the chunk out of it with more favourable conditions. Post-COVID-19 lockdown, the CBN announced a N50bn intervention through Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing system for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) MFB exclusively. We consider that the amount is small to meet the funding gap in the MSME sector and have requested the CBN to extend this same hand to the MFBs. A N250bn intervention fund to the MSME sector to be disbursed through MFBs will deepen the market and cushion the negative effects of the lockdown. COVID-19: Exclusion of MFBs from CBN’s N50bn disbursement undesirable for SMEs– NAMB President COVID-19: Exclusion of MFBs from CBN’s N50bn disbursement undesirable for SMEs– NAMB President NDIC advocates for microfinance training institute