The Chairman of Toto Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, Alhaji Nuhu A. Dauda, has appealed to the state government to come to the aid of victims of an attack by suspected militiamen in Dawusu village. Daily Trust had reported that some suspected militiamen on Monday July 27, 2020, invaded Dawusu village in Umaisha, Toto LGA, killed five persons and set several houses ablaze, while others, including a retired DSS officer, were declared missing. Alhaji Nuhu made the call when he visited the community in company of the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of the area, SP Caleb Tabwassan, and some military personnel. He condoled with the families of those who lost their lives in the attack and called on them to take solace in God, while assuring that he would ensure that the state government came to their aid. The chairman called for calm among his people, promising to report the matter to the appropriate quarters, stressing that the people needed urgent assistance in terms of food and shelter. The Village Head of Dawusu, Mallam Idris Mundi, who took the chairman’s team round the affected areas, which are now deserted, told the team that property worth millions of naira had been lost as a result of the attack. Meanwhile, the Nasarawa State Governor, Engr. Abdullahi Sule, has sympathised with the Ohimege of Opanda, Alhaji Usman Abdullahi, and the people of the area over the Dausu attack. Gov. Sule assured that his administration was determined to protect lives and property of not only people of the affected community, but the entire state. The governor spoke through the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Alhaji Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi, who visited the chief’s palace on Sunday to sympathise with him over what he called the “barbaric and inhuman attack.” The governor enjoined the people of the area to give maximum support to security operatives deployed to the area and remain law abiding. Retired DSS officer, 13 others missing after Nasarawa militiamen attack Militiamen kill 5, set houses ablaze in Nasarawa ‘Operation Whirl Stroke’ battles kidnapping, robbery in Nasarawa