The newly appointed Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, yesterday wept as he bade farewell to the people of the emirate where he was emir. The emir, while making his remarks shortly after he received his letter of appointment, had to pause awhile to control his emotion. He said the people of Bichi showed him real love, respect and support while he was their emir. “I really appreciate you, the people of Bichi. Today, I am leaving you not because I do not want to stay with you but because this is how Allah has destined it. “As Muslim faithful, we must believe in destiny in all our undertakings. We must believe that whatever happened to us is from Allah the Almighty,” he said. READ: Letter to my Son, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi He also appealed to the people of Kano to live in peace with one another and support government and traditional institutions to move the state forward. In his remarks, Governor Ganduje said, “I am so happy today because the people of Kano are happy. I am so delighted for this occasion which to me is the first of its kind since the creation of Kano State. “This is the first time in the history of Kano where two sons of late Emir Ado Bayero, who ruled the state for 53 years were appointed emirs. This is the first time in the history of Kano where two brothers of same mother same father received letters of appointment as emirs,” he said. Shortly after the presentation of letters of appointment to the two emirs, Aminu Ado Bayero was escorted to emir’s palace in Kano by a mammoth crowd, and his brother, Nasiru Ado Bayero was escorted to Bichi. Meanwhile one of the wives of the deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, visited him yesterday at his new abode in Awe town in Nasarawa State. Daily Trust reports that the wife of the dethroned emir arrived Awe at about 11.15 am along with three of the deposed emir’s children. She arrived in a white SUV with tinted glasses and was escorted by mobile policemen and officers of the Department of State Security (DSS) who were conveyed in two Toyota Hilux vans with Kaduna State Government number plates. The Emir of Awe, Alhaji Umar Isa Abubakar; Chief of Azara, Dr Kabir Musa Ibrahim and Chairman of Awe Local Government Area, Alhaji Umar Da-Akano, were also said to have met with the deposed emir. The people of the host community in Awe said they were overwhelmed with Sanusi’s presence but unhappy with his dethronement. Daily Trust reports that deposed Emir Sanusi is set to sue the Kano State government over his banishment and detention. Head of his legal team, Abubakar Balarabe Mahmoud, who stated this to Daily Trust in Kano yesterday, said they would file the case today. Mahmoud said other parties in the suit include the Inspector General of Police, Director General of the Department, Kano State government and Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. He said, “Despite putting our request for the immediate release of his highness from unlawful detention, it is 24 hours now, but nothing has come from the government side. Therefore, we have decided to file our case before of court today.  Family visits Sanusi in Awe Bayero wept for leaving Bichi emirate Why I chose Wambai  as Galadiman Kano  – Emir Sanusi