-Says plague not new in human history The Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) under the leadership of Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, has expressed concern over the attitude of some Ulama’s in misleading Muslims in the country on the menace of coronavirus. In a statement yesterday by its Secretary-General, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, the JNI observed that the actions of some ‘Ulama clearly indicate ignorance of reality of the pandemic as it concerns knowledge and medical scholarship. The JNI noted that the negative actions of such preachers incite innocent Muslims, who are unaware of the serious health implications of coronavirus which endangers humanity. He further noted that the issue of plague and/or pandemic such as the one being experienced is not new throughout human history at separate times or places, the Muslim world inclusive. The statement said, “JNI is once again saddened with the recent unfortunate development of misleading the Muslim Ummah by some sections of ‘Ulama (preachers) over the coronavirus prevalence. We must as an Ummah avoid a repeat of the current trend in Italy, which was partly due to non-adherence to expert advice over the pandemic. Allah, the Most Wise says “…So ask those who know if you know not” Q16:43. Therefore, we should all bear in mind that knowledge is an Amanah (Trust) and must be safeguarded to and delivered as such. “It is thus sheer monumental ignorance to falsely claim that the coronavirus pandemic does not exist and that it is a lie and a shadow of a ghost. Such lamentable utterances leave much to be desired by any scholar that is worth being called a scholar. Moreover, the matter is a documented fact whose medical precedents have been set in curbing its tide in human history. “For the information of discerning minds, there were prominent incidents of plagues and epidemics in Islamic history, which caused monumental mortality.” JNI refutes collecting Jonathan’s N12bn, threatens legal action The politics of moon-sighting ACF, JNI condemn Kano killings, call for dialogue