The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, has assured that Boko Haram would soon be crushed. He spoke through a representative at the Nigerian Army Special Day at the 41st Kaduna International Trade Fair. Buratai who was represented by the Chief of Policy, Nigerian Army, Lieutenant General Lamidi Adeosun, said: “The overall objective is to make the Nigerian Army a people’s army with versatility in fighting the enemies of Nigeria and food insecurity on the other hand. Specifically, a few days ago, our troops deployed in Damboa, Borno State recorded a resounding tactical victory against the evil forces of Boko Haram who dared the superiority of our forces. “They paid very dearly for it by the monumental losses in men and equipment. Let me once more remind us that the ongoing operation in the North East is asymmetrical and not a conventional warfare. We hereby solicit the support, prayers, patience and understanding of all Nigerians.” “The Nigerian Army, apart from its primary role of defending the territorial integrity of Nigeria, is also involved in fighting insurgency in the North East and other internal security operations across the length and breadth of the nation.” He said though the primary role of the army is to defend the territorial integrity of the nation, it is now prepared to contribute to Nigeria’s economic development “In line with global trends, the Nigerian Army is developing its capacity to contribute to the economic development agenda of the present political leadership through the establishment of some army units such as the Nigerian Army Farms and Ranches, Nigerian Army Post-Service Housing Development Limited, Command Engineering Depot as well as Nigerian Army Properties Limited and Nigerian Army Welfare Limited by Guarantee.” “These outfits do not only serve the interest of Nigerian Army personnel but also avails its products and services to the general public at relatively affordable prices, hence our participation at the Kano, Abuja and now Kaduna International Trade Fairs.” He commended the Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DICON) which in collaboration with Command Engineering Depot (CED) researched, developed and produced EZUGWU, the first indigenous mine- resistant ambush protection vehicle with 70 per cent local content. Boko Haram will soon be crushed - Buratai assures Nigerians Buratai: The hero who made the difference ‘We can defeat Boko Haram in one month if…’