The Provost of the college, Dr. Ango Abdullahi Ladan, said his tenure had brought a new lease of life to the college as new structures now dotted its landscape. Dr. Ladan said for the first time in about 12 years, the college obtained full accreditation of all its Nigeria Certificate in Education (NCE) programmes in addition to the 17 degree programmes it was running in affiliation with the Usmanu Danfodio University, Sokoto (UDUS) and the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria. He added that, “Some of the infrastructure include the twin-lecture theatre (Junaid Hall), college clinic, male hostel (phases I and 2), virtual library, extension of academic staff offices and library. Other monuments are the bursary, Ibrahim Richards Isyaku Computer Centre, Assistive Technology Laboratory and El-Rufa’i Hall.” Dr. Ladan said following a deliberate policy on staff development, the college had recorded huge success where it was now proud of 131 PhD holders and large number of master’s degree holders among its academic staff. With the feat, he said, the college had the highest number of PhD holders among all the colleges of education in Nigeria. He said the non-teaching staff were also given opportunity to excel, as two of them had bagged PhD degrees, while many had earned master’s degrees. He explained that, “The college is committed to ensuring quality in output of its products and is keen in obtaining sterling results in all its programmes. The quality control and assurance unit of the college is up and doing in ensuring the adherence of global best practices. We are, therefore, proud of our products, as they can compete with all their peers in the country.” Dr. Ladan said NCE students of the college were made to write Computer Based Test (CBT) as it enhanced early submission of results, addressed examination malpractice, among many other benefits. On the issue of improving Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), the provost said the college had its consultancy unit which gave birth to ZAFEC Microfinance Bank, and that both were “performing excellently”. While appreciating those that honoured the college’s invitation and the ones that made contribution to the success of the convocation, Dr. Ladan advised the about 20,000 graduates to be good ambassadors of the college. FCE Zaria to start Maths, other degree programmes Bayero University Kano: In search of alumni Reviving FCE Zaria’s convocation is a thing of pride for me – Dr Ladan