The Federal Government has urged the Swedish Government to support Nigeria’s quest to deploy more robust broadband infrastructure in the country for economic growth and prosperity. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami, who solicited the support at  a dinner hosted by the Swedish Ambassador to Nigeria, Carl-Michael Grans, in Abuja on Wednesday, said Nigeria had embarked on a digital transformation journey and efforts were ongoing to ensure evacuation of the massive data capacity at landing points to hinterland. The minister, who was represented by the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof Umar Danbatta, said the project would help in access of 10gbps in each of the 774 local governments of the country. “We have a plan to move the massive capacity from landing point to hinterland. To do that, we know we have to put in place the necessary infrastructure that will facilitate it. We would therefore like the Swedish Government to buy into this great idea of deploying this massive broadband infrastructure which is fibre-driven. “We appreciate the important intervention that you are giving to this country, especially to this sector of the economy we are managing on behalf of the Federal Government. The statistics are there for all to see. The broadband penetration, for instance is about 40%, but this is 40% of close to 200 million people, which translates to about 80 million Nigerians having access to high speed internet together with the volume associated with broadband networks,” Pantami said. He, however, noted that as the country’s population is close to 200 million and the government would not rest until all Nigerians have access to high speed internet as well as the volume associated with the network. On internet penetration, the minister said currently about 125 million Nigerians have access, lamenting, however, that close to 31 million Nigerians are still within un-served and underserved areas. Daily Trust reports that Nigeria achieved its 5-year National Broadband target of 30% in December 2018 and since then the level of penetration is growing.