The FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, yesterday inaugurated an Emergency Response Team to combat the spread of Coronavirus    The minister while inaugurating the team, charged it to confront the disease in all ramifications and curtail its spread. A statement by the minister’s Senior Special Assistant Media and Strategic Communications, Malam Abubakar Sani, said Bello was represented at the event by the acting Secretary of the Health and Human Services Secretariat, Dr. Kawu Mohammed.     The team includes: Infection Prevention and Control; Epidemiology, Surveillance and Point of Entry as well as Laboratory.    Others are Risk Communication and Social Mobilization; Case Management as well as Health Safety and Welfare unit which will be chaired by relevant professionals.   The minister charged members of the response team to bring their experiences and professionalism to bear in attending to the confirmed cases and also diligently track  all suspected cases until the the FCT is declared free of the pandemic.   He said 39 cases were reported and tested in the FCT while four were confirmed to be positive. Meanwhile the Gomo of Kuje, Alhaji Haruna Tanko Jibrin, has called on residents of the area to embark on special prayers against the spread of Coronavirus, also known as COVID-19. Alhaji Haruna, who spoke through his Chief Press Secretary, Mohammed Abubakar, yesterday, urged Muslims, Christians and other religious faithfuls to resort to rigorous prayers seeking God’s intervention against the menace of the COVID-19, which has become a global concern. He added that the outbreak of the disease was not only a threat to lives but also a threat to the country’s economy and the entire world. The only way to get out of this strange disease that has been claiming lives across the globe is to submit ourselves to God almighty through prayers,” he said. The traditional ruler also called for proactive measures against the spread of the virus, which he said included proper hygiene and improved environmental sanitation among others. He, however, expressed satisfaction with the efforts of the FCT administration by closing down both public and private schools in the territory.  Coronavirus spreads to Abuja Nigeria’s Coronavirus latest: 28 Quarantined in Ogun FCT restricts gatherings at churches, mosques, night clubs