The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has said fuel would become cheaper and more environment-friendly in Nigeria once the Ajakuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) gas pipeline, billed to commence in the second quarter of 2020, is completed. The Group Managing Director of NNPC, Malam Mele Kyari, stated this on Sunday at the 41st edition of the Kaduna International Trade Fair, holding in Kaduna. He said with the AKK project, environment-friendly fuel would be used to power most of the moribund textile companies in Kaduna and Kano states, thereby reviving the companies and creating job opportunities for the teeming youths. “Upon completion, we envisage that the AKK project would get gas, a cheaper and more environment-friendly fuel to power most of the moribund textile companies here in Kaduna and Kano, thereby reviving them and creating job opportunities for our teeming youth,” he said. Kyari, who was represented by the Managing Director, Kaduna Refining and Petrochemical Company (KRPC), Eng. Ezekiel Osarolube, commended the Kaduna Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA) for organizing this year’s Trade Fair and introduced the corporation’s latest products; the Nitro and Rhino ranges of engine oils. “The Nitro range of engine oil is for petrol-fired engines while the Rhino range is for diesel-fired engines. They are specially blended to enhance the performance of your engines and give them long life,” he said. The GMD said the NNPC was currently transforming from a traditional oil and gas entity into an integrated energy outfit with interest in power generation and transmission. “The decision to diversify into the power sector is hinged on the need to bridge the huge energy gap in the Nigerian market. The corporation is also engaged in development of renewable energy to, overtime, create low-carbon economy and link the Oil and Gas Sector to the Agricultural Sector,” he said. NNPC, Chinese to begin $2.8bn Abuja-Kano pipeline project NNPC, US agency sign $1.1m deal for Abuja power plant NNPC signs contract for $2.8bn Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano pipeline project