Perimeter fencing is central to for tifying the airports especially against excursions. This is why the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), under Capt. Rabiu Yadudu as Managing Director has taken the issue of perimeter fencing very seriously since he assumed office. The International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) regulations under annexes 14 and 17 made it mandatory to have both perimeter and security fences at the airport. With over 22 airports under the purview of FAAN, the authority had deployed billions of naira to fence several hundreds of kilometres of landmass of the airports inthe country. Fencing this large airport land, according to experts, would alsosend away trespassers on airport land. International airports in Lagos, Abuja, Kano and Port Harcourt have what can be called first class perimeter fencing even as works are ongoing on many other airports. Experts say while more works need to be done, the FAAN’s security measures so far, are in line with the standard and recommended practices globally. To deepen airport security, FAAN had introduced the perimeter patrol, built perimeter towers, which enables the Aviation Security,  AVSEC, personnel and other security agencies to have a full overview of the airport environment and installed latest technologies in strategic locations to increase surveillance. This was achieved through the support of the Federal Government. In October, last year,  the Federal Executive Council (FEC) presided over by  Vice President Yemi Osinbajo approved N2.97 billion for fencing and perimeter road for the Port- Harcourt International Airport. Withthe completion of the perimeter fencing, FAAN would take its security and safety campaign  a notch higher as it will allow for monitoring of the fence integrity and also for additional security; to be able to go round the circumference of the airport for improved security and safety operations. FAAN has successfully put a mechanism whereby they review the number of the On Duty Cards (ODC) issued to operators’ staff. Since then and with such strict personnel monitoring by FAAN, only people designated to be in restricted areasare able to gain access to such areas. Theacting Director General of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt. Abdullahi Sidi applauded FAAN for providing quality security systems at the nation’s airports, particularly the international aerodromes. He said Lagos and Abuja airports had consistently scored over 90 percent in international security audits, and a good advertisement of the Federal Government’s focus on security and safety of the aerodromes. “Withoutthe high-security networks in Nigerian airports, Sidi explained, Delta airlines would have ceased operations in Nigeria. He said: “In as much as we have some minor security issues, Nigeria airports especially the Lagos and Abuja, security-wise, we have achieved 96 percent of the International Security Audit.If you remember, not long ago, the Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, received ICAO certificate for achieving very high security standards at ourairports”, Sidi said.  Stakeholders task FAAN on security at airports Why airports lack perimeter fencing – FAAN Airports at the mercy of land grabbers