The Comptroller General of Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammad Babandede has tested positive for the Coronavirus (COVID-19) disease. The NIS spokesman, Sunday James, disclosed this in a statement released on Sunday morning. He said the CG had been in self-isolation since he returned from the United Kingdom last week in line with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control’s directive. While disclosing that Babandede took the Coronavirus test, James added that: “The result of the test came out positive.” However, James said the NIS CG is in stable condition as he’s responding to treatment. “The Comptroller General is active and directing as expected the affairs of the service online, while the Deputy Comptroller General overseeing the administration of the service is in touch online to keep service activities running within this period. “The Nigeria Immigration Service community will continue to deliver on its mandate for the nation even in these trying times as we pray the whole world get over it, Nigeria inclusive,” James added in the statement. Daily Trust reports that Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, also confirmed testing positive to the COVID-19 on Saturday in a tweet posted on his official Twitter account: @GovKaduna. El-Rufai joined other Nigerian leaders including Bauchi state Governor, Bala Abdukadir Mohammed, and the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, who had tested positive for the COVID-19 disease. It will be recalled that the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Saturday night recorded eight new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) infection, bringing the total number to 97 nationwide, with three already discharged and one dead. Most states of the federation have now declared total lockdown as part of efforts to reduce the spread of the virus in the country. CROSS-CHECK: Was Atiku’s son who tested positive to Coronavirus at PDP rally in Ibadan ? Atiku's son tests positive for coronavirus COVID-19 exposure: Many govs refuse to self-isolate