The APC in Delta State has taken a swipe at the preparedness of the Delta State government to tackle the coronavirus pandemic. A statement issued yesterday by APC State Publicity Secretary, Sylvester Imonina, expressed disappointment over what it regarded as insincerity in the way and manner the PDP-led government was handling issues on the ravaging coronavirus issue in the state. Imonina, who urged Deltans to live hygienic lives, claimed that the level of preparedness of the government to tackle the disease was built on “falsehood”. According to Delta APC, the PDP-led Delta State government preferred playing to the gallery and feeding her citizens with lies instead of tackling genuinely the problems besetting the people. “Contrary to the claim of Delta State government that isolation centres had been set up in different parts of Delta State to tackle any possible outbreak of the coronavirus epidemic in the state, the state chapter of the APC can authoritatively report that the PDP-led government has done nothing to prove any sign of seriousness to tackle the dreaded menace. “Information available to us reveals that apart from the Federal Medical Centre, Asaba, which has some semblance of an Isolation centre for coronavirus likely patient, all other hospitals do not have Isolation centres and/or facilities to tackle coronavirus related ailments. But in a swift reaction yesterday, Delta State PDP berated APC for spreading what it called “fake news to Deltans” and playing politics with the deadly coronavirus. The PDP Publicity Secretary, Dr Ifeanyi Osuoza, chided the APC publicity secretary for alleging that isolation centres in the state were either ill-equipped or non-existent. Dr Osuoza said arrangements have been put in place to handle the global pandemic should the state record any case. He said: “The APC publicist should stop displaying crass ignorance over a serious matter that involves the lives of Deltans and instead try to follow up on global updates concerning the coronavirus to be well informed before issuing any other embarrassing press release. “It is becoming quite annoying and distracting to always have to point out the crass ignorance which the APC in Delta State continues to display even in understanding simple things like the difference between a ‘Holding Centre’ and an ‘Isolation Centre’ “It becomes equally important to state here for the avoidance of doubt that the Delta State government set up 12 holding facilities across the state, as a precautionary measure to mitigate any potential spread of the coronavirus.” Dr Osuoza insisted that the state government also recently unveiled a purpose-built, fully equipped and operational ready Isolation Centre, located in the Federal Medical Centre in the state capital, Asaba, which was commissioned by the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal on Thursday, March 19, 2020. Reps to suspend plenary for 2 weeks over coronavirus Why I defected to APC - Emmanuel Uduaghan Jonathan doesn't deserve second term--Sylva