An indigenous company, Ukpa Hansa Energy Solutions Limited, has unveiled solar electricity devices as it partners with the Nigerian Postal Services (NIPOST) to make it accessible across over 5,000 postal outlets. Unveiling the product at the NIPOST headquarters in Abuja on Thursday, the Managing Director of Ukpa Hansa, Chief Ewie Aimienwauu said through the speedy collaboration with NIPOST, Nigerians at rural areas will begin to have access to uninterrupted electricity. He noted that Ukpa, which means light can provide sustainable power for small businesses, clinics, households and schools through the innovation. “This cooperation is the one that will give light to remote areas where the hope of grid electricity is not yet on ground,” Ewie added. The Post Master General and CEO of NIPOST, Dr. Ismail Adebayo Adewusi said the agency is determined to use its extensive postal outlets to deliver innovative services. He said, “What we are witnessing here is the rediscovery of NIPOST,” noting that the partnership with Ukpa Hansa will process more Nigerians with access to clean energy as the Goal 7 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “With over 5,000 postal outlets and with over 12,000 employees, NIPOST is ready to make the product available to consumers nationwide. From today, this service will be available in our Abuja and Lagos offices and to other states as time goes by,” Adewusi said. Chairman of the NIPOST Governing Board, Maimuna Yaya Abubakar who unveiled the Solar Home System (SHS) and other products said, “We are open to partnerships and they will be partnerships that will be beneficial to NIPOST first and to other agencies because I am really passionate about developing NIPOST.” Director for Hansa Energy Solutions, the parent company in Dubai, Thanveer Hussain assured that the firm through NIPOST network will reach the nooks and corners of Nigeria. “It is to ensure that clean electricity reaches the underprivileged in the society,” Hussain said.   Sorry state of Lagos NIPOST office Can NIPOST generate N200bn annually? Can NIPOST generate N200bn annually?