 As the COVID-19 pandemic rages, the International Air Transport Association (IATA), yesterday, projected that the continuous flights disruption may result in 853,000 loss in passenger volume and $170 million (about N62 billion) in base revenue in Nigeria, with over 22,200 jobs at risk. It also noted that if the pandemic continued, approximately 2.2 million passengers and $434m of revenue could be lost, and therefore, appealed to governments in Africa and the Middle East “as part of a worldwide campaign, to provide emergency support to airlines as they fight for survival.” IATA’s projections came yesterday on the heels of more airlines in Nigeria adjusting flights in response to COVID-19. For instance, Air Peace, Nigeria’s largest airline, said it would scale down flight operations, including suspending Dubai-Sharjar international flights next week. Arik had on Wednesday similarly suspended its West Coast operations as more countries imposed travel ban. Following the Federal Government’s travel ban on 13 countries announced on Wednesday, activities at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, have slowed down remarkably. When our correspondent checked yesterday, the usual hustling and bustling had fizzled. At the airport, the busiest in the country, few passengers were on ground while airline staff and security officials had less work to do because of the low passenger turnout. The President of the Association of Foreign Airlines and Representatives of Nigeria (AFARN), Kingsley Nwokoma, disclosed that less than half of foreign airlines now operated to Nigeria. Air Peace Chief Operating Officer (COO), Mrs. Toyin Olajide, said the decision to cut down the carrier’s flights followed “tremendous decline in passenger traffic and the need to cut costs.” AS the evaporation of air travel demand increases, IATA said governments needed to bail out airlines “as scale of the current industry crisis is much worse and far more widespread than 9/11, SARS or the 2008 Global Financial Crisis.” IATA’s Director General and CEO, Alexandre de Juniac, said, “The airlines are fighting for survival. Many routes have been suspended in Africa and the Middle East and airlines have seen demand fall by as much as 60 per cent on remaining ones. Millions of jobs are at stake. Airlines need urgent government action if they are to emerge from this in a fit state to help the world recover once COVID-19 is beaten.” Lufthansa cancels 23,000 flights over Coronavirus outbreak COVID-19: US travel ban to affect over 125,000 travelers daily – IATA Nigeria’s visa on arrival issuance drops by 60% in 30 days