A bill seeking to establish a South West Development Commission yesterday divided the Senate. While some lawmakers in the Red Chamber spoke in favour, others spoke against the passage of the proposed legislation, which scaled second reading on the floor of the Senate. Senator Ibikunle Amosun (APC Ogun Central), who sponsored the bill, had earlier said the commission was to develop the commercial and industrial potentials of the South West. “The push for the establishment of the South West Development Commission is an attempt to address the dwindling fortunes of the region by implementing a regional development plan, taking into consideration the region’s unique endowments, natural advantages and capabilities,” he said. The lawmakers, who opposed the proposed legislation, said the South West is the most developed region in Nigeria, therefore, there was no need for such commission. Senator Adamu Bulkachuwa (APC, Bauchi North) said the National Assembly shouldn’t be a place to discuss disintegration of the country and described the bill a dangerous one. “There was first Amotekun, now there is South West Development Commission. “All the other commissions that were approved by this Senate, the NDDC, NEDC were actually children of circumstances. “I do not see a reason why South West Development Commission should be created because South West is the most developed sub region in Nigeria,” he said. Senator Peter Nwaoboshi (PDP Delta Central) said, “If we balkanise this country, we will be held responsible. We shouldn’t sit here and divide this country. The foundation we are laying here is a foundation to balkanise the country.” But Senator Surajudeen Ajibola Basiru (APC Osun Central) said the bill should not been seen with ethnic lens and cautioned against unnecessary agitation. Also backing the bill, Senator Adamu Aliero (APC Kebbi Central), said every geo-political zones has its peculiar problem and should come up with development programmes. Senate reintroduces bill to establish North West Development Commission Again, Senate introduces bill to create South-west devt commission As NASS Begins Constitutional Amendment January: Electoral Act, Hate Speech, LG Autonomy, Others to Dominate Exercise