The Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) has entered into a partnership with the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) that will see NiMet downscale weather forecasts information to help NIRSAL partner farmers mitigate weather related loses. At the MoU signing ceremony Friday in Abuja, Mr. Aliyu Abdulhameed, NIRSAL’s Managing Director said with regard to NiMet’s capabilities, NIRSAL envisions that this partnership will lead to the generation and provision of agro-meteorological weather information and other strategic services for supporting finance and investment decisions. He said: “Today opens the door to the future in the fields of primary agricultural production and the utilisation of meteorological data amongst other big data sets in support of increasing yield and productivity of farmers and avoidance of catastrophic weather risk events. “Under this partnership, NIRSAL will pursue strategies to downscale the Seasonal Rainfall Prediction (SRP) components like temperature, onset of rainfall and dry spells, cessation of rainfall, etc to farmers. It will be an awareness campaign that will guide farmers against Pre-Onset Rainfall (false-onset) and recommend risk measures in places that will experience severe dry spells”, he noted. According to NIRSAL CEO, NIRSAL” has embarked on an ambitious program of structuring agricultural primary production in Nigeria with the much applauded Agro GeoCoop initiative in the field. “The formation of Agro GeoCoops has commenced in earnest across the country and is based on the Agro Commodity Ecological Areas (ACEA) that have been identified by NIRSAL and validated by research institutes. This platform presents an organised setting for finance, market and risk management. Agro-meteorological risk policies based on NiMet’s data can be promoted to support the insurance industry in Nigeria” he added Commenting on the collaboration, NiMet Director General, Prof. Sani Mashi said: “any threat to agriculture and environment is a threat to food and nutrition security and life in general. Projected impact of climate change on agricultural yields alone between 2003 and the 2080s reveals that Nigeria lies between -5 and -15 percent expected production level. This means a mean reduction in agricultural yields.” According to him, the NiMet-NIRSAL partnership is a perfect fit for achieving our primary mandate of promoting climate-smart agriculture in agricultural activities. “We will provide all the necessary support to NIRSAL to reach as many farmers possible by designing and developing effective strategies for disseminating agrometeorological services to farmers leveraging on the latest technology. We will therefore be developing site specific cropping calendars in line with your focus commodities in the agricultural value chain across the country” he promised. NIRSAL mobilises N102bn for agribusiness lending in 4 yrs NIRSAL, Union Bank seal N10bn loan deal for farmers Farmers using weather information improve their yield by 35 percent - NiMet