Governor Abdullahi Sule has gone for self-isolation as a precautionary measure. A statement by his spokesman, Yakubu Lamai, said the governor will now work from home. “The governor had earlier invited a medical team from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), to conduct comprehensive tests on him and have taken his samples,” he said, adding that all the results tested negative. Also, Governor Yahaya Bello has been on self-isolation since Sunday over the coronavirus pandemic, Daily Trust learnt yesterday. Responding to our reporter’s inquiry on whether Bello responded to the call by Governor Fayemi, his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Onogwu Muhammed, said his principal had been on self-isolation long before the directive. “The governor and his principal aides have been on self-isolation since Sunday and have been working from home.” Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State is also in self-isolation following his contact with some people that tested positive. A statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, said the governor has sent his samples for testing. “The governor has gone into self-isolation after the Governor of Bauchi State, Senator Bala Mohammed and Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, tested positive for coronavirus,” it said. According to him, Obaseki had met Senator Mohammed at the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) and National Economic Council (NEC) meetings, adding that he also visited Mr Kyari. He said although the governor is not showing any symptoms of the virus, he has taken the necessary precaution to self-isolate to protect people that may otherwise come in contact with him. Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State has also embarked on self-isolation. His self-isolation is also due to his attending the Nigeria Governors’ Forum’s meeting on March 18, which was also attended by his colleagues. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mary Noel Berje, indicated that the governor had undergone test for COVID-19 and was waiting for the result. The governor has directed that all his close aides and cabinet members should subject themselves to self-isolation. In Sokoto, some government officials said Governor Aminu Tambuwal might have gone into self-isolation over Convid-19. “We were not officially told but we believe he has isolated himself,” one of them stated. “There were only skeletal services here today (yesterday),” he said. Before testing positive for COVID-19, Kyari mingled with govs, ministers, others Covid-19: Obaseki goes into self-isolation, sends in samples for testing COVID-19 pandemic: Nigeria heads for total lockdown