Nigeria has recorded two new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) disease, driving the number of cases up to 44. As at 6:25pm on Tuesday, March 24, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) reported 2 new cases. The two new cases involve individuals who have travel history to Germany and the UK. The two cases are: one in FCT and the other one in Bauchi. At the moment, two persons have been discharged while one death has been recorded so far. 2 new cases of #COVID19 have been confirmed in Nigeria: 1 in FCT and 1 in Bauchi The cases have travel history to Germany and the UK. As at 06:25 pm on 24th March, there are 44 confirmed cases of #COVID19 in Nigeria. 2 have been discharged with 1 death pic.twitter.com/JbCVwSrxFd — NCDC (@NCDCgov) March 24, 2020  As at 1pm today, NCDC reported two cases, which involved a returning traveller and a contact of a previously confirmed case. One of the patients resides in Lagos and the other in Ogun State. Daily Trust had reported that the Bauchi state Governor Bala Abdukadir Mohammed, tested positive for Coronavirus today. The NCDC had confirmed 40 cases Monday evening after four new cases were recorded in the country. The NCDC also confirmed first death from the disease last Monday. Following the rise in the number of cases. the Federal Government, last night, directed federal civil servants from Grade Level 12 and below to work from home with effect from today, to stem the spread of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HCSF), Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, gave the directive in a circular with reference number: HCSF/109/SJ/1/100 and titled “Compulsory stay at home of non-essential public servants on Grade Level 12 and below as a further measure to curtail the spread of Covid-19”. “Government is concerned about the welfare and safety of all public servants just as it is about other Nigerians. All public servants are, therefore, strongly advised to follow the measures being put in place by government to curtail the spread of the pandemic,” the circular stated in part. Some states in Nigeria, including Lagos and Kogi, have also called on state workers to work from home. Nigeria confirms two new cases of Coronavirus Coronavirus: Nigeria confirms 4 new cases, as total now 26 Coronavirus: Nigeria’s confirmed cases rise to 40