Stallion Motors, one of Nigeria’s leading auto assemblers and franchisee of nine global brands, including Hyundai, has unveiled plans to roll out electric cars from its auto plant before the end of this year. The company’s vice chairman, Mr. Haresh Vaswani, gave the hint about his company’s plan to officially launch into the Nigerian market Hyundai – Kona, the acclaimed number one electric car. According to him, the company is desirous of introducing the electric vehicle into the Nigerian market to bring the country at par with the rest of the world. He explained: “Well-meaning and concerned people globally are urgently making moves to save our dear planet. “After operating successfully in Nigeria for over five decades, the least our company could give back to the country and by extension, the world is to be a leading pilot in steering the nation to the direction of clean energy use and reduction of emission. “Not being dissuaded by the nation’s infrastructural challenges, one of our plans for this year is to introduce into the country Electric Vehicle (EV) and, in no distant future, embark on attitude change campaign for a clean environment in conjugation with Hyundai”, Vaswani added. According to the company, the Hyundai KONA Electric’s power-packed performance will provide a thrilling driving experience with high acceleration over long distances. Driving range for Kona Electric is 482 km with an acceleration of (0-100kms) in 9.7 secs. The ease of charging is un-matched, one can even plug it in at home or at work and charge it for 9.35 hrs for a full battery capacity. The car comes with a 5 years of battery warranty and 5 years of vehicle warranty. KONA Electric will change the way people think about going electric. It would make history as first EV to in Nigeria with local manufacturing. It would be recalled that the Director General of National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), Mr. Jelani Aliyu, recently hinted of the preparedness of Nigeria to embrace electric cars, saying the federal government is in talks with manufacturers around the world to realise the dream.  In California heat, cool cars see Nissan doing a 360° Hyundai, Stallion partner  to make vehicles in Nigeria Stallion Motors storms Abuja motor show