Electricity consumers in Kaduna at a public hearing on Extra Ordinary Tariff Review of MYTO for Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company organised by the National Electricity Regulatory Commissioner (NERC) have expressed their displeasure over the proposed plan by the distribution company to increase its electricity tariff. Airing their grievances at the public hearing with the theme: “Investments towards improvement of power supply and quality service in the Nigerian electricity supply industry”, a cross section of the consumers accused the electricity distribution company of alleged indiscriminate billing and insensitivity. An aggrieved consumer, Saleh Mohammed urged NERC not to approve the proposed tariff because the company is yet to show serious commitment to the management of the power sector of the economy since its tale over the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria. Chairman, state chapter of the Association of Professional Printers of Nigeria, Koko Clement in his submission said, any new tariff coupled with the upward review of 7.5 Value Added Tax by the President Muhammadu Buhari regime, will be an added burden on Nigerians. He said the Association vehemently opposed the proposed tariff adding that, “The printers association of Kaduna State said the new tariff is unacceptable to them.” Another consumer, Abubakar Aliyu noted that the company is yet to show the capacity to remain in the power business, saying that residents will only accept any new tariff if their homes were installed with prepaid meters. After listening to contributions and complaints from customers, the Vice Chairman of the commission, Engineer Sanusi Garba said the commission will decide on the application by Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company to review its tariff upwards in March. While noting that the Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company intends to implement performance within its franchise for the purpose of improving service, he disclosed that the DISCO has indicated its intention to redistribute its load allocation and review its rate design in terms of how much consumers pay. According to him, “Consumers have raised issues in terms of the increase, indicating that it is too high. Some consumers have expressed their concern for the disparity between KEDC and other DISCOs in other parts of the country, indicating that it may discourage manufacturing especially small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs). “Some consumers have indicated that the best way to implement this increase will be to provide every consumer with meters, which we are doing in terms of the new initiative by the commission. “We have heard your complaints; we will go back and hear from other DISCOS and sometime in March, we will take a decision on their applications.” He urged consumers who have been compelled by the DISCO to buy transformers, cables and poles to report directly to the commission saying, “That is not allowed by law, but a customer can decide to do so based on an agreement with the DISCO and such customer must be compensated with energy.” He further called on customers to read the regulations and come to the commission for further guidance on how that is going to be done. Earlier, a Commissioner in the Commission, Dafe Akpeneye, disclosed that Electricity Distribution Companies (DISCOS) are no longer allowed to charge customers through estimated billing. The commissioner said after due consultation with Nigerians, the commission developed a new method through which customers will not be charged pending when they are provided with the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) by DISCOs. The NERC commissioner explained that the new method will ensure fair charges among all electricity consumers stating that consumers will be charged according to the average price paid by meter users in their locality. “The commission came up with an average billing from the data collected from discos in every locality and we checked the price paid by meter users so we concluded that henceforth all consumers will be charged on the same scale since they are in the same environment”, he said. Meanwhile, the Managing Director, Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company, Engr. Garba Haruna assured that the company remained committed to providing more power supply to commercial and industrial areas. page 23   ELECTRICITY Badagry residents decry planned electricity tariff hike Kaduna Electric explains electricity tariff review