Precautionary measures were not taken in some churches in Niger State despite mass turnout of worshippers for Sunday service. During a visit to some churches in Minna, Sauka Kahuna, Nkangbe, Kapgungun, Chachanga, Tunga, Bosso, Maikunkele across Minna and also in Bida, our reporter did not see any sign of water or sanitiser for members. Sitting arrangements were also not altered in line with the call for social distancing. Members of some churches who spoke to our correspondent said that the Niger state government had not banned religious gathering of any kind in the state, a claim which the Secretary to the State Government, Ahmed Matane, confirmed. “As at when we briefed the press on Friday, there were no cases reported in Abuja which was why we didn’t ban religious gatherings; but for now, we will put stricter measures,” he said. Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has assured the citizens of his administration’s preparedness to ensure that they are safe. According to him, “Corona virus is not a death sentence but an ailment that requires community effort to deal with,” he said. Amid the assurances by the governor, Sunday services were held in big churches in Umuahia like the Mater Dei Catholic Cathedral, St. Finbar’s Catholic Church, St Stephens Anglican Church, Living Faith Church, among others. In Edo, the state government has not shut down schools or place ban on worship centres and social gathering. Churches yesterday observed services with large worshippers while precautionary measures were not put in place in most of the places visited. Governor Godwin Obaseki had during a meeting with traditional rulers, religious and political leaders said when it becomes necessary to shut down worship centres, the decision would be made in the interest of public safety. Religious leaders across churches in Damaturu had during the Sunday sermon urged their subjects to maintain good personal and environmental hygiene. Musa Buba, one of the pastors who spoke with our correspondent said, “Although there was no ban order on religious gathering in Yobe, people should not be reluctant and think it is not coming,” he said. Bauchi State Government is yet to ban public congregations as sociocultural activities including schools, marriage ceremonies and religious gatherings continue without any restrictions. Church services were held yesterday across the state with huge attendance especially in Bauchi metropolis and other locations without any form of restrictions. Academic activities have also continued in primary, secondary and tertiary institutions across the state including private and religious based schools despite media campaign on preventive measures against the disease. On Friday, Governor Bala Mohammed and other key government officials wearing preventive mask attended Friday prayers at Ibrahim Bako Juma’at Mosque in Bauchi metropolis. When contacted over the government’s silence on shutting down schools and public congregations, Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media, Mukhtar Gidado, said that the government will take a decision about the matter today. N/west, N/central close schools, Lagos bans religious gatherings Coronavirus: Abuja churches flout ban on gatherings World Council of Churches team visits Jang, prays at Dogonahawa mass grave