Millions of Nigerians are at the risk of being infected by the ravaging Coronavirus as authorities at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport have completely suspended all forms of screening for air travellers. Investigations by our correspondent on Monday at the airport, which has the second largest number of passenger traffic in the country, showed that even at the General Aviation Terminal (GAT), where the aircraft charter services, travellers were not being subjected to any form of screening or tests. For instance, there were non-contact infrared fever scanning system machines for both departing and arriving passengers, not even as basic as the hand- held body temperature testing devices. One of the passengers who travelled from Lagos to Abuja confirmed to our correspondent he was not checked for temperature reading, adding that he only saw hand sanitizers placed in some visible positions. The passenger, who simply identified himself as Mr. Chukwuma, told our correspondent he was disheartened over the situation, especially when the authorities should take public health more seriously. A further check by Daily Trust also showed that the airport facilities were not disinfected, thereby exposing passengers to the risk of being infected by the dreaded virus at the airport. When contacted on why there was no screening at the Abuja aiport, FAAN’s Regional General Manager, North Central and Abuja Airport Manager, Mr. Mahmud Sani, just quipped: “Please ask the head of Port Health.” The Head of Port Health Office, David Mano, in turn directed our correspondents to the Federal Ministry of Health, saying “thanks for the concern. Please all enquiries are directed to the Director, Port Health Services, Federal Ministry of Transport”. But whilst the buck passing goes on, Nigerians are daily being exposed to the risks of Covid-19 at airports. This is even more worrisome when considered against the backdrop that the Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, is a member of the Presidential Task Force for the Control of the Coronavirus. The risk is even more profound when viewed against the background that international passengers’ transit through these airports to other destinations across the country. The Director, Public Affairs, Ministry of Aviation, Mr. James Odaudu said the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) is handling all issues around the Covid-19 at the airports.  All VIPs must undergo COVID-19 checks, Sanwo-Olu tells airport workers 185 flights delayed, 130 others cancelled over bad weather Airport officials intensify Ebola screening