The Chief Medical Director (CMD), University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, Prof Jesse Abiodun Otegbayo; the Provost, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Prof Olubunmi Olopade-Olaopa; and her Deputy, Prof Obafunke Denloye, have tested positive to the coronavirus disease. Consequently, they have been isolated as part of measures to contain the spread of the contagious disease. The three victims made the revelation in separate statements issued and personally signed by them on Sunday morning. The UCH CMD, Otegbayo, had in hinting of the genesis of the discovery on the Facebook wall of the teaching hospital, on Monday 23rd March, said the UCH had commenced a 12-man quarterly board meeting, which was meant to last five days in the hospital. He said while the UCH maintained precautionary measures against infection, “However, on Wednesday morning, one of us was presented with what appeared to be symptoms of COVID-19. His samples were immediately taken for test and the meeting called off. “His results returned positive on Friday morning and every participant (including me) immediately went into self-isolation, while our samples were also taken for test. “Unfortunately, my result returned positive on Saturday afternoon and I remain in isolation as I am not symptomatic. All staff that have been in contact with me and other participants during this period have been advised to immediately proceed on self-isolation, pending the time they get tested. “COVID-19 is spreading faster than we think and I enjoin everyone to take precautions. If one person has it, then a gathering of two becomes dangerous. Stay at home, avoid unnecessary outing and stay safe.” On her part, the Provost, College of Medicine, UI, Olapade-Olaopa, posted a message on a Whatsapp group message on Sunday morning, saying: “Dear colleagues, I wish to inform you that the deputy provost and I tested positive for the COVID-19, following the tests done on Friday. “Although we are both asymptomatic, we have gone into self-isolation for the 14 days while our contacts are being observed closely to determine if they should also be tested.” It was gathered that the trio are among the four new cases of COVID-19 in Oyo State announced on Saturday night by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), thereby bringing the number of confirmed cases of coronavirus pandemic in the state as at March 28, 2020, to seven. These latest cases make the state the third highest in the country after Lagos with 59 cases and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) with 16 cases as of Saturday night.  Chief Medical Director, UCH Ibadan tests positive for coronavirus COVID-19: 3 University of Ibadan principals test postive for Covid-19 Oyo records first Coronavirus case, as suspect tests positive