Ekiti state governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has imposed a 12-hour dusk to dawn curfew in the state from 7:00pm to 7:00am starting from tomorrow (Monday), saying all residents in the state are to stay at home. Governor Fayemi, in a statewide broadcast in Ado-Ekiti on Sunday morning said the purpose of the curfew is to impose restriction on movement of persons and goods within Ekiti state for an initial period of fourteen days to prevent the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state. “We are implementing the Quarantine Act to keep all Ekiti residents safe.  So, let me be clear.  If you do not go home or stay home for at least fourteen (14) days as from Monday, 30 March, 2020, you could face serious fines or prison term,” he warned. Fayemi further stated that during this period, movement between local governments is prohibited, movement between towns, villages and communities is also confined to the place where he or she ordinarily resides in Ekiti state. On the coronavirus pandemic, the governor said Ekiti has a 10-bed isolation centre in Ado-Ekiti, adding that the state would try to increase the capacity to 100 beds with necessary medical equipment required to manage any COVID-19 patient. “We have also ordered more PPE for our medical personnel to protect them from infection while caring for the sick,” he stated. Fayemi also pointed out that markets, retails shops and shopping malls must be closed, except where essential goods are sold and with strict hygienic conditions to prevent exposing people to COVID-19 infection. “All boundaries of Ekiti state are closed during this period, except for transportation of fuel, food and drugs and other essential goods. “All non-residents who arrive the state prior to, or after, the imposition of this restriction, and who remain in the state, must remain in their place of temporary residence in the state for the duration of the 14 days, as the case may be and may be subjected to screening for COVID-19 and be quarantined for isolation, if necessary. “All commuter transport service including bus services, taxi services, motor bikes (Okada) and tricycles services (Keke), is prohibited, except those for purposes of rendering essential services, obtaining essential goods, seeking medical attention, funeral services and to receive payment of social grants or food: provided that such vehicle carries not more than 50 precent of the licensed capacity and all directions and the limitation of exposure of persons to COVID-19, are adhered to,” Governor Fayemi said. The governor said “any person who contravenes these regulations shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction, liable to a fine or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.” He noted that his administration is fully aware of the inconvenience these directives will have on the daily lives and livelihoods of the people, saying it is the sacrifice we must all make to remain healthy and alive. Governor Fayemi informed the people that some palliative measures have been put in place for the high risk and vulnerable citizens, noting that March salaries have been paid to the civil servants in the state. He also directed that the Ekiti State Food Bank be reactivated immediately to provide food items to the poor and vulnerable families in all communities in the state, among others. States take measures on COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 exposure: Many govs refuse to self-isolate VIDEO: Fayemi storms Ado Ekiti in victory procession