Malam Abba Kyari, the Chief of Staff to president Muhammadu Buhari, who returned to Nigeria from Germany on March 14, had participated in several state functions and unofficial engagements that attracted prominent personalities. He tested positive to coronavirus (COVID-19) yesterday. He had attended events involving President Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, many governors, ministers and other top government functionaries before the result of the test. It was gathered that yesterday’s confirmation that Kyari tested positive to COVID-19 necessitated the subsequent test on President Muhammadu Buhari, which turned out to be negative. Shortly on his arrival on March 14, Kyari attended the wedding of the son of the Inspector General of Police, Muhammad Adamu. READ: Come forward if you had contact with Gov Mohammed, Bauchi govt urges public Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote were among top dignitaries that graced the wedding. At the meeting of Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) with President Buhari on March 16, Kyari was also there and group photographs were taken. The meeting was attended by 16 out of the 20 governors of the ruling party, including Babagana Zulum (Borno), Babajide Sanwo Olu (Lagos), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Godwin Obaseki (Edo), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa), Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq (Kwara), Abdullahi Sule (Nasarawa), Mohammed Sani (Niger) and Simon Lalong (Plateau). Others were Rotimi Akeredolu ( Ondo), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano),  Adegboyega Oyetola (Osun), Aminu Masari (Katsina), Hope Uzodinma(Imo) and Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe). Before the NEC meeting, Kyari had an encounter with the embattled National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. READ: Oshiomhole shuts APC secretariat, asks staff to remain at home On Tuesday, March 17, the chief of staff led a delegation to the Bello family compound in Okene to commiserate with Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State over the death of his mother, Hajiya Hauwa’u Ozoho. Members of the President’s delegation included the Minister of Special Duties, Senator George Akume; Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; Minister of State, FCT, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani;  Minister of State, Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Zubair Dada and the Senior Special Assistant to the President, Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu. The same day, he attended a briefing session by the Presidential Economic Advisory Council (PEAC) led by Professor Doyin Salami and took pictures with them. The PEAC chaired by Prof. Salami is made up of Dr. Mohammed Sagagi, who is the vice chairman, Prof. Ode Ojowu, Dr. Shehu Yahaya, Dr. Iyabo Masha, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, Dr. Bismarck Rewane and Dr. Mohammed Adaya Salisu. President Buhari’s chief of staff was also in attendance at last week’s Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting on March 18. Inside the council’s chambers, his seat was not far from that of Boss Mustapha and Osinbajo. READ: We need more than military tactics to combat insurgency — Osinbajo On Thursday, March 19, Kyari attended the inauguration of the National Humanitarian Coordination Committee (NHCC) chaired by the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq and also took some photographs. Members of the committee co-chaired by the National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd.) are the chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum, ministers of defence, interior, justice; and minister of state budget and planning; Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Naval Staff, Chief of Air Staff, Inspector General of Police, as well as governors of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states. Also on the committee are the Commandant General, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps; Comptroller General, Nigeria Customs Service, United Nations Resident Coordinator, Permanent Secretary, FMHADMSD (Secretariat), Chairman, Non-Governmental Organization Forum, among others. Kyari was sighted after Juma’at prayers on Friday, March 20, but was not seen at the Presidential Villa from Monday. He is reportedly on self-isolation at his residence at the Defence House, Maitama, but sources said he might be moved to another facility for extensive medical care.  NCDC confirms 2 more Covid-19 infections, raising total to 46 Before testing positive for COVID-19, Kyari mingled with govs, ministers, others COVID-19: Contacts with Abba Kyari on self–isolation – Sources