The minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq, says 48,637 persons have benefitted from the Conditional Cash Transfer initiative in Nasarawa state. She stated this recently in Abuja when the governor of Nasarawa state, Engr. Abdullahi A. Sule, paid a courtesy visit to the ministry. “The National Social Investment Programme (NSIP) has been embedded in the mandate of the ministry for sustainability.” “It is targeted at the vulnerable, the less privileged, among others. For instance, in Nasarawa state, 48,637 people have benefited from the Conditional Cash Transfer programme, while 12,200 people have benefited from the N- Power programme. In the Home Grown School Feeding Program, 170,630 children from primary 1 to 3 are being fed daily, with 2,433 cooks employed. “We have some IDPs in Nasarawa too as part of humanitarian challenges, but we have charged agencies under the ministry to ensure the IDPs are taken care of. We hope to get the support of critical stakeholders to achieve our mandate.” While responding, the Nasarawa state governor,  Engr. Abdullahi A. Sule, expressed gratitude to the minister for the numerous interventions in the state since she assumed office, but solicited more interventions, especially in protecting and empowering IDPs in the state. “We are grateful to the minister for the various programmes of the federal government that Nasarawa people are benefiting from. However, we have a lot of IDPs; some of them even come from different states. So we still require more assistance or special intervention for them, because many of them are having problems in relocating to their states of origin. “Our indigenes are also IDPs in different states and need help to be resettled back home. Also, today, we have the Child Protection law that bans street begging. We had more than 80,000 children between the ages of 5 to 7, who were sent by their parents in different states to come and beg in Nasarawa, so we have to protect and provide for them.” 80,000 children from other states begging in Nasarawa — Gov Centre denies attacking FG’s programmes Borno IDPs get UN cash assistance