The Nigerian National Technical Committee on Petroleum and Petrochemicals has reached consensus on the adoption of the International Organisation for Standardisation’s (ISO’s) standards for turbine and marine fuel as Nigeria Industrial Standard (NIS). The latest standardisation initiative is in conformity with the international safety regulations, limiting the sulphur content in heavy fuel oils, in order to reduce the negative effect of sulphur oxide emission from ships into the environment. At a recently convened Technical Committee (TC) meeting of experts and stakeholders in the downstream sector of the oil and gas industry held at the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) Laboratory Complex in Lagos, the industry stakeholders harped on the need for Nigeria to align with the International Maritime Organisation’s (IMO’s) regulations on shipping activities. The SON Director General, Osita Aboloma, reiterated the importance of standards in protecting the health of consumers and the environment as well as facilitating fair trade practices, particularly with the growing demand for quality and safe products globally. He said the deliberations on the draft Standards for Turbine and Marine Fuel was aimed at meeting the aspirations in the industry to align with international best practices, particularly that Nigeria is a signatory to the International Maritime Organisation’s (IMO’s) pollution prevention treaty. Represented by the Director, Standards Development, Mrs. Chinyere Egwuonwu, the SON Chief Executive explained that Nigeria, as a signatory to the treaty, was expected to comply with IMO regulation with regard to the implementation of 0.50% m/m maximum Sulphur content in heavy fuel oil (Bunker fuel oil) used on board during ship operations within controlled areas. Aboloma commended the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) for convening the technical committee’s meeting. He pointed out that the agency’s role as a regulator in maritime activities, would aid the implementation of the standard, and accompanying regulations, adding that “it would also ensure strict compliance on Nigerian territorial waters, after approval by the Standards Council of Nigeria. “Therefore, limiting sulphur oxides emissions from ships will improve air quality and protect the environment, resulting in tangible health benefits, particularly for people living close to ports and major shipping routes”, he said. Chairman of the Technical Committee, Prof. Joseph Ajienka of the University of Port Harcourt commended SON for creating the avenue for developing the standard, saying it will help curb pollution in the nation’s maritime industry. Investigation: How delayed implementation of dirty fuel ban costs Nigerians billions NIMASA to enforce 0.5 % sulphur limit on bunker fuel SON, DPR at war over diesel adulteration