The removal of Emir Muhammadu Sanusi II by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State shocked many; and it is an issue about which everyone has an opinion. Therefore, I asked the members of Prof. Brainy Whatsapp group to share their views. Enjoy. Ibn Yakub An Naijiree: As for me I’m neither sad nor happy at his dethronement. I can’t be hyperventilating over a personal in-house vendetta that found a willing partner in a vindictive and unfavoured executive. I think we should also understand the power play within the royal family; the heirs of Ado Bayero schemed for this. If we understood the politics surrounding the appointment of SLS as Emir you would understand we are spending too much time on an issue that doesn’t even deserve it. That Sanusi is cerebral and intelligent is another issue. What brought him to the throne is political; and we would understand it more if we understand the feud between the late Ado Bayero and Kwankwaso while taking a look at the Gov Shekarau’s closeness to Ado Bayero. Also realise the role the Jonathan- Kwankwaso feud played at a time Kwankwaso was just leaving the PDP and a prominent Kano prince (SLS) was being fired by the central government with which Kwankwaso was not in good terms. But of course it is a democracy and everyone should have a say. Kabiru Umar: Regardless of which end of opinion you hold on  the  issue  of the dethroned Kano emir, the central fulcrum of the prolonged feud between the emir and Ganduje is a battle of political loyalty. Ganduje wanted absolute loyalty from SLS, while the Emir was brutally uncompromising in saying as he sees it and was also covertly pitching tent with an opposing political camp. Ganduje waited and intimidated SLS, expecting him to retract his steps and come back with tail between his legs to pay unshakable allegiance,  but SLS was too principled and cultured to make sycophantic submission; therefore, chose to hold his tail high. Ganduje patiently and strategically waited for the appropriate time to stamp his feet of authority. Sadly, the AMIR was constitutionally exposed to machinations of political jobbers. Unfortunately many of us will do same if we were Ganduje.  Emir Sanusi it is my conviction and prayers that you will emerge victorious from this trial. Huzaifa Adam Umar: To me I blame SLS , he nurtured the dream to be the emir, his wish was to be there. In one interview  with USMAN USMAN of  freedom Radio KANO when he was still CBN governor,he was asked if he dreamt to be a governor of KANO state or president of Nigeria ,he replied that : everyone’s desire from a royal family is to be crowned an emir and that he was not an exception. His dream came true but he failed to manage his success and got involved in politics. We have a lot to learn from Ganduje/SLS feud. Life is not about  success but its about managing the success and glory that followed. Ya Allah ka iya mana kar ka barmu da iyawarmu. Khalid IMAM Kano: No objective commentary of the pain we Kanawa were subjected to yesterday would fail to fault both Ganduje and SLS in the prolonged crisis. The emir was truly not neutral while the governor was as well devilish and unpretentiously unstatesmanlike at all in his handling of the crisis. Our prayer is for Kano to return to the path of sanity and honour as the dust settles down soon. Anonymous: My only question is, what would have been El Rufai’s reaction if any of the traditional rulers in Kaduna had supported Shehu Sani in the 2019 elections? Abu Abdurahman: Not all APC govs are on the same page with Kano State Governor, so he could still get the nod from a number of the Govs who might be sympathetic to SLS, if the presidential ambition is true anyway. Also on the claims of partisanship by SLS, they remained heresay up to now,because I am yet to see any proof where he campaigned for any particular candidate, Kwankwaso said in an answer to a question during an interview today that all he knew SLS said was that whoever wins the election should be handed the mantle of leadership, that’s calling for fairness, Salamatu Wachiko: Ganduje is not one of my favourite northern leaders. To make matters worse, he detroned Sanusi! Anyway, I’m moving on just like Sanusi would. Yahya Sodangi: It’s unfortunate after the intervention of the Northern elders through the former Head of State, Abdussalami Abubakar, they didn’t heed the counsel! The issue is personal ego: of SLS and Gov Ganduje. Arikewuyo: I know many people have looked at Emir Sanusi’s removal from varying perspectives. However, my question and worry is this: where were northern leaders and elders? Because I believe it’s a natural phenomenon for people to have disagreements, misunderstandings and the likes. So where are those who have the capacity to make peace between the duo? Perspectives on what happened in Kano The many controversies of Emir Sanusi II Family visits Sanusi in Awe