The Federal High Court has granted a Stay of Execution on the judgement delivered by Justice Rilwanu Aikawa, nullifying the collection, remittance and hike of the Combined Expatriate and Residence Permit Aliens Card (CERPAC) fees from $1000 to $2000 in 2018. In November 20, 2019, Justice  Aikawa of the Federal High Court, Lagos in his judgement had  declared as unconstitutional the contract between the Ministry of Interior, the Nigeria Immigration Service and Continental transfert technique  Limited for the collection of the CERPAC fees, in a suit brought by Mr, Femi Falana, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN). The Federal Government, through the Minister of Interior, the Comptroller-General of Nigeria Immigration (NIS) and Contec jointly filed an appeal against the judgment in the suit No: FHC/L/CS/289/2019, in which the federal high court granted a stay of execution  in their  favour. The lawyer representing the ministry,  Dr. Adewole Adebayo, in the appeal raised twelve grounds upon which he asked the Court to set aside the judgment of the Federal by Justice Aikawa which declared as unconstitutional the contract between the Ministry and Contec  for the collection of the CERPAC fees. In granting the stay of execution of the judgement via certified true copy dated March 3 and signed by the Court Registrar, J. S. Ogedengbe and the Principal Executive Officer of the Federal High Court, Mrs. O.Y Thomas, upheld the appeal filed by the third Respondent’s lawyer, Dr. Adewole Adebayo and Co. House of Law in Abuja, stated thus in the main upheld the CERPAC fees hike of $2000 payable annually by expatriates resident in Nigeria. The order on the motion said: “Upon reading the affidavit in support and written address dated and filed on the 22 of November, 2019 in the Federal High Court Registry, deposed to by Omolara Sodeinde and a legal practitioner of Adewole Adebayo and Co. House of Law in Abuja, Federal Capital Territory.” NIS, Interior Ministry seek stay of execution over residence permit fees Bench warrant: Innoson files motion of appeal, stay of execution 2019: Supreme Court verdict dims Rivers APC fate