The enforcement team of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has arrested the General Overseer of Jesus Reign Family Church at Apo, Pastor U.U Uden for violating ban on places of worship. The FCTA has banned gatherings in public places including churches and mosques as part of measures to curb the spread of Coronavirus but the church was holding full Sunday service when the team arrived. Chairman, FCT Ministerial Task Team on Traffic Decongestion, Mr Ikahro Attah, who led other members of the enforcement team waited for the pastor to conclude the worship before approaching him and arresting him. City News learnt that the pastor was taken to the FCT Police Command, Garki and handed over to policemen on duty. The team also dispersed worshippers at the Christ Embassy church located at Jahi district of the FCT while 14 other church services were  disrupted by the team. The team had on Saturday dispersed worshippers at a wedding in Christ Embassy Church, Jabi, following complaints by members of the public that the large gathering violated social distancing guidelines issued by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA). Also dispersed was a wedding reception at Wuse Zone 6 which had in attendance over 300 guests. The team also shut down H-Medix Pharmacy at Wuse 2 following complaints received at the FCT COVID-19 situation room that the pharmacy does not have ‘short-gun’ thermometer and the required items to ensure the safety of customers and staff. The FCTA last week set up five enforcement teams to monitor and enforce compliance in markets, motor parks, bus terminals, religious places, recreational centres, among others. The FCT Commissioner of Police, Bala Ciroma, while leading the teams out on Friday, reiterated the determination of the security agencies to enforce compliance with the directives issued on containment measures of COVID 19 in the territory.  Worshippers troop to churches, mosques despite ban Coronavirus: Abuja churches flout ban on gatherings Nigeria’s Covid-19 cases rise to 30