The Ondo State government has announced total ban of trading in all markets in the state followingthe disobedience of traders to its order on partial closure. In a statement yesterday signed by the Ondo State Commissioner for Information, Donald Ojogo, the government said the move to totally shut the markets was part of strict measures to stem the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The government stated that after its initial order to partially close all markets, with the exemption of those engaged in trading in life-saving items like food, water and medicines, it observed that traders and consumers had been flagrantly disobeying the directive. “Compelled by this unwholesome infraction, government, hereby, places a total ban on all markets across Ondo State with effect from Tuesday March 31, 2020. This ban is irrespective of any item. For emphasis, all markets must remain closed until further notice,” the statement said. In a related development, the United Bank for Africa, has donated the sum of N28.5 million to the Ondo State government as part of its contributions to the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The donation was made through the UBA Foundation. Presenting the cheque to  vernor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu in his office yesterday, the bank’s Regional Head, Mr Olurotimi Obagaye, expressed hope that the donation would go a long way in helping the state in the fight against Covid-19. Responding, Gov Akeredolu thanked the UBA Foundation and its Chairman, Tony Elemelu, for the donation. The governor said the UBA had been doing its best in caring for Nigeria and Africa at large, with large sums of money it has been donating to states. Also in Lagos, the UBA gave the government a cheque for the sum of N1billion as part of its commitment to curbing the coronavirus spread. Presenting the cheque to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu at the State House, Marina, on Sunday evening, the bank’s Managing Director, Mr Kenneth Uzoka, said that the N1bn donation was in fulfilment of the N5bn commitment made by the UBA Group Chairman, Mr Tony O. Elumelu, early last week. The decision to give Lagos N1bn, according to Uzoka, was as a result of the important role that the state plays in the economy of not only Nigeria, but Africa as a whole, given its vast population and other key economic factors. Controversy lingers over prayer ban in Anambra markets Ambode orders enforcement of ban on street trading, begging Ondo to experience network blackout soon – MTN