….target N100bn yearly savings  The Office of the Auditor-General for the Federation has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) to plug all sources of leakages in the nation’s public finance system, particularly in revenue generating ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs). Under the deal, the two entities have projected that about N100 billion would be saved in the first one year of the collaboration. The Auditor-General for the Federation, Mr. Anthony Ayine,  who made the projection at the MoU signing ceremony yesterday in n in Abuja, said the public would be updated on the results of the collaboration sometime in May this year. He said: “Our plan is to report back to Nigeria on the first stage of our partnership by May 2020 and we have agreed a target of N100bn in savings, efficiency gains and financial impacts to be achieved within one year.” he said. “On the revenue generating agencies, we are starting with the Federal internal Revenue Service and the Nigerian Customs Service. This is in view of the revenue crunch facing Nigeria and the impact that will have on government ability to implement the 2020 Budget”, Ayine added. He explained that the partnership will entail a joint work plan and joint visits and will send a strong signal to Nigerians that the war against corruption has taken a new level. The AuGF noted that with his Office’s over 1700 audit staff and about 800 staff at the ICPC, the combined workforce is quite small in the context of the challenge we face with corruption in Nigeria. He explained: “Where we as auditors have information but that is not provided seamlessly to law enforcement agencies such as the ICPC, we have inadvertently created a duplication of effort or even worse, scope for loopholes and leakages to go undetected. Information sharing is therefore a key benefit of the partnership. “Secondly, we as auditors do not have law enforcement responsibilities and powers, however, we do come across many instances where there is a need for law enforcement intervention. In such instances, the closer we are to an agency such as the ICPC, the more likely the intervention will be timely and productive. We, therefore, expect the ICPC’s law enforcement powers to complement our audit efforts”, the AuGF added. Also commenting,  Prof. Owasanoye said: “Last year, ICPC in our efforts to fulfill our mandate, we focused on the personnel of about 208 MDAs and we were able to restrain about N40bn from being misspent. “This year the budget is about N10trn and the revenue is to come from taxes, proceeds from oil among others, and these revenues are subsequently allocated to MDAs, as such, if we do not have a system that ensures that the money is used judiciously and Nigerians get value for the money, the national budget will be spent without any developmental impact”, the anti-graft chief added. How Reps, MDAs differ on N1.4trn unremitted funds We spend average of N4m to investigate petitions – ICPC Anti-corruption: Agencies still divert funds – Buhari