Car wash operators in Kubwa, FCT have appealed to the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) to lift ban on the use of pipe borne water for car wash business in Abuja. Chairman of the operators, Mr Moses Moore, made the appeal in an interview with News Agency Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja. NAN reports that the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello has directed the FCT Water Board to disconnect water supply in all car wash centres in Abuja, except those operating at petrol filling stations. Moore appealed to the FCT Minister to direct Water Board to restore water supply to all the affected areas to enable the operators continue their business and cater for their families. According to him, not all petrol filling stations in Bwari have space for car wash operation, hence the need for car wash to be established outside petrol stations. Moore said there are more than 200 car wash operating in Kubwa, which are providing employment opportunities for no fewer than 800 graduates and undergraduates. He said that the leadership of the car wash operators is working hand-in-hand with the Bwari Area Council and Department of Environmental to ensure that their members are properly guided on their operations. He also said that almost all car wash operators in Kubwa and other area within Bwari Area Council are adhering to all the environmental regulations and are obeying all instructions and directives of water board. “We are soliciting and appealing to the FCT Minister to look into our issue and lift the ban on the use of pipe borne water for car wash business. “It is increasingly difficult for us to operate car wash business without water supply from water board because many of us cannot afford to dig borehole and the owners of the land we are using will not allow us to dig borehole on their land. “We are duly registered with the Cooperate Affairs Commission (CAC) and we have been operating our business without any problem. “Majority of our members have registered with the FCT Water Board, acquired meters and we are paying our monthly water bills to the board without any delay. “We are providing job opportunities to over 800 unemployed graduates, who are the majority of the operators,” Moore said. (NAN)  Car wash operators decry alleged harassment, extortion by AEPB How to start car wash in FCT – Yusuf Minister invites investors to FCT light rail transit system