Many power firms and electricity consumers nationwide are in disarray in multiple consultations ahead of a planned hike in tariff next month. This is despite the scarcity of meters and the recent cut in estimated bills in the private-led power sector. In this piece, Daily Trust dissects issues in the power sector and solutions being provided. Since the Multi Year Tariff Order (MYTO) 2015 was implemented in February, 2016, no other tariff increase occurred. Operators decried a market and tariff shortfall of N1.7tn by December, 2019, which they said crippled investments in power networks, metering and performance. To improve the power sector, the Federal Government, through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), has injected N1.513tn. In 2014, a N213bn Nigerian Electricity Market Stabilisation Fund (NEMSF) loan was given to the operators to clear legacy debts at 11 per cent interest rate. In 2017, the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) got a N701bn Payment Assurance Guarantee (PAG) for the GenCos to pay 50 per cent of their operational costs. Another N600bn loan was given to NBET for GenCos to meet up generation until April, 2020, when the tariff will be hiked. While the Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman, labelled these as subsidies, the DisCos have denied that, saying the actual N100bn subsidy for electricity consumers was never provided. The DisCos through their Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED) claimed that they only got loan and were repaying it. Nigeria is also seeking a $3bn loan from the World Bank partly for the Siemens power deal to fix distribution and transmission issues to improve power supply to consumers under the new tariff. Engr. Mamman and other officials were in Germany last week for the meeting. A ministry official said Siemens and the DisCos must partner on fixing the technical lapses: Siemens will also focus on improving the Independent System Operator (ISO), the electricity evacuation arm of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), all happening from the second half of this year. In February, NERC began processes for the extraordinary tariff review, saying the 11 DisCos and the TCN applied for the tariff hike owing to changes in various indices, including inflation and Foreign Exchange (Forex) rates. The tariff could raise the rates for electricity by an average of 66 per cent from what is being paid. To enlighten customers, NERC held 12 consultations. At that of Abuja DisCo in Abuja last week, the commission insisted that DisCos must meter consumers and create proper complaint handling schemes. The NERC Commissioner, Legal, Licencing and Compliance, Dafe Akpeneye, who chaired the AEDC tariff review panel, said the essence of the hearing was for customers to interrogate the process. To curtail incessant bills when the new tariff begins, NERC rolled out an order barring the DisCos from giving estimated bills to customers. DisCos had complied, but want extension as bills of customers for February dropped by nearly 40 per cent, a survey shows. At a consultation session by the Abuja DisCo, the MD, Engr. Ernest Mupwaya, said the firm would spend N43bn on 92 projects that would add 892 megawatts (MW) energy to its network and provide better services to customers. Engr. Mupwaya also urged the Federal Government to waive the 45 per cent import duty imposed on meters to help it attain the installation of 867,291 units by 2022. AEDC deployed 170,239 meters in 2019 and targets installing 330,377 in 2020. It will install 257,373 meters in 2021 and 109,302 in 2022 to close the metering gap in the FCT, Kogi, Niger and Nasarawa states. Reacting, Abel Sunday, a resident of Karu, said there had been load-shedding “that ought to be factored into the tariff. I insist that the method is not transparent.” The Association of Power Generating Companies (APGC) faulted NERC for leaving out some macro-economic changes and unfair dealings with them. APGC said, “DisCos remittance water fall for year 2020 of the minor review indicates that GenCos on average will receive 36 per cent of their revenue requirement, while DisCos will receive 100 per cent if they fulfil their obligations.” The President of the Nigeria Consumer Protection Network (NCPN), Barr. Kunle Kola Olubiyo, acknowledged the fragile power networks, poor governance and regulatory issues in the power sector.  ECN tasks electricity investors, consumers on low but cost reflective tariff Dogara faults incessant hike in electricity tariff despite FG''s N123billion bail out Power sector privatisation: From blackout to higher tariff