Centre for Citizens with Disabilities (CCD) says it will shut down its offices nationwide while its staff work from home due to the spread of the Coronavirus (COVID-19). Mr David Anyaele, Executive Director of the organisation said this in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Abuja. Anyaele also said that the organisation would be putting on-hold all its public functions and activities at the national and state levels, pending when it receives convincing information on the control of the spread of the virus. “Should the spread of the virus continue, we may consider closing all our offices as we are not satisfied with the management of the pandemic by government. “Following the confirmation of five new cases of the virus, we call on Nigerians with disabilities to take appropriate measures to protect themselves from contacting the virus. “Measures including avoiding large gatherings, public functions, parties and we advise that it is better to stay in-doors,” he said. Anyaele also expressed worry about both the federal and state governments’ method of disseminating information on the spread, prevention and control of the virus. According to him, in all the television announcement by the Ministry of Health and its agencies on the virus, none is disability-friendly. He urged the government to implement and enforce Section 2 of the Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities Prohibition Act 2018. “The Act provides that Federal Ministry of Information shall make provision for the creation of awareness regarding rights, respect, and dignity of persons with disabilities; capabilities, achievements, and contributions of persons with disabilities. “There are absence of sign language interpreters to interpret for the deaf community in all the announcements on what the government is doing to control the spread of the virus. “The various sensitisation methods are not disability-sensitive at all,” he said. He observed that people living with disabilities were most vulnerable to the virus and as such an all-inclusive prevention, response and control mechanism should be adopted so that no one would be left behind in the management of the pandemic. He urged on the government at all levels to ensure that all information relating to protection and control of the spread of the COVID-19 were disseminated in a disability friendly format. He also called on the federal government to implement the National Disability Act through the establishment of the National Commission for Persons with Disabilities in accordance to the provisions of the law. CCD is the premier organisation for persons with disabilities that works to educate, support, empower and promote disability rights, independent living and social inclusion.(NAN) Averting coronavirus epidemic in Nigeria Coronavirus: Outrage as Reps resolve to shut down for 2 weeks Nigeria’s Coronavirus latest: 28 Quarantined in Ogun