A section of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday commenced preparation for the March 17 emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting. Some members of the NWC, among them Babatunde Ogala Esq (legal adviser), Mallam Lanre Onilu (publicity secretary) and Arc Waziri Bulama (newly appointed secretary yet to be inaugurated) had asked the members of NEC to disregard the notice issued by the acting National Secretary of the party, Chief Victor Giadom. Our correspondent reports that eight members of the NWC met at the national secretariat yesterday to set in motion the NEC meeting. After a three-hour closed-door meeting, the NWC members left without speaking to the press. The NWC members who attended the meeting include; acting national secretary, Chief Victor Giadom, national vice chairman (North East) Comrade Salihu Mustapha, national vice chairman (South West) Pastor Bankole Oluwajana and national organising secretary, Emma Ibediro. Others were National Youth Leader Abubakar Sadiq, National Woman Leader Hajiya Salamatu Beiwa and the acting national auditor, Isah Mabuchu. The meeting, according to one of the NWC members, was for the next week’s NEC meeting. Oshiomhole yet to resume one week after court order Our correspondent reports that one week after an Abuja High Court order suspended him, the embattled National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, is yet to have access to his office. It was observed that normal activities have resumed at the secretariat after days of siege by security operatives. Daily Trust observed that staff of the party have also resumed. An Abuja High Court had last Wednesday ordered the party to stop recognising Oshiomhole as its chairman pending the determination of a substantive suit seeking his perpetual removal. The former labour leader had on Thursday secured an order from the Federal High Court in Kano restraining the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from recognising any other person aside from him as the national chairman of the party. Endorsement of national chair fake – State chairmen’s spokesman Meanwhile, the spokesman of the forum of the APC state chairmen, Lawali Liman, has said the endorsement of Oshiomhole reportedly by the forum was fake. Liman, who is chairman of Zamfara State APC, dissociated the forum from what he called, “fraudulent vote of confidence on Oshiomhole.” The forum’s chairman, Ali Bukar Dalori and Secretary, Dr Ben Nwoye, had on Monday announced the passing of a vote of confidence on Oshiomhole by the forum. But Liman, while puncturing the announcement, said no decision had been taken on Oshiomhole. According to him, the forum had not met but would meet before the NEC meeting scheduled for Tuesday. “I want to confirm to my colleagues that there was no meeting held and there was no statement issued to pass a vote of confidence on the national chairman. “All issues would be resolved at the next NEC meeting and, hopefully, we will hold a meeting of the forum before the said NEC meeting,” he said.  APC crisis: NWC says no faction as state chairmen back Oshiomhole APC crisis: Buhari wants feuding parties to respect constitution — Official APC NWC divided on Oshiomhole’s fate