The Federal Government may have concluded plan to take over three more airports in addition to the 22 airports under its control, Daily Trust reports. Presently, there are 22 airports being managed by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), out of which few are considered viable. Added to the list of airports considered “unviable” are three more state airports. While all airports have “international” in their nomenclature, only five operate international flights. Others usually get busy during the annual Hajj operation. Apart from the busiest Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, which controls 80 per cent of air passenger traffic; other international airports are Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja, Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA), Port Harcourt International Airport, and Enugu International Airport. The Managing Director of FAAN, Capt. Hamisu Yadudu, gave this hint at the weekend at a conference by FAAN unions. He said, “We are going to get three more airports within the next few weeks, three more already confirmed. So we have to set up a committee to explore ways to make them viable.” However, Yadudu said the authority was working with relevant stakeholders to make the airports viable. The MD said, “We have written to some outside bodies to work with us: National Tourism Board, Airline Operators of Nigeria and foreign airlines with the aim of getting a committee that will help us get many of our airports viable. Our primary source of revenue is just Lagos and maybe Abuja and Port Harcourt; we cannot be effectively running an organisation as big as FAAN based on two airports.” This is even as he hinted that the authority was also considering the review of some concession agreements around the airports. Aviation analyst, Alex Nwuba, said airport managers should devise ways of making the airports work. Nwuba said, “The issue has never been about managing more, but as I’ve always said, it is about making the airports work…Given the situation of our airports, it is quite easy for anyone to ask why we need more airports, but in fact we do. Airports are important economic stimulators, but we have to make then viable; and that’s the job of managers.” A former General Secretary of the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Comrade Olayinka Abioye, said many states had continued to build airports that were not viable for “political reasons”. Abioye said, “States have been building airports for political reasons till our democracy commenced, and these airports are usually approved by the FG, supervised by appropriate government agencies. If the FG and those agencies felt there was no need for such state airports, why were they allowed to start?”  FG kicks at P/Harcourt airport rating as passengers seek action FAAN: Repositioning for better services Airport security, certification get N4.6bn in 2020 budget