Stakeholders in the agricultural sector have applauded the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) over the slashing of interest rates on intervention funds from nine to five per cent, saying the gesture will increase the incomes of many beneficiaries and scale up the wealth of many start-ups in the country. The Chairman of the Nigerian Apiculture Platform (NAP), Dr. Ademola Adesina, in a telephone interview, said the cut would boost activities in the sector and increase the profit margin of most businesses in the nation’s agricultural sector. Noting that the current global economic whirlwinds did not support high interest rates, the industry expert said the apex bank took the right decision in order to cushion the effect of the coronavirus (COVID-10) pandemic; which is melting down global economy. Also, the President of the Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN), Mr. Ezekiel Imam, told Daily Trust that the gesture was going to create a huge impact in the sector. Mr. Imam said, “We are very glad with what the CBN has done. This is going to make us very competitive. My only plea is that we have to be very patriotic in the administration of these funds to make the desired impact.” He said they had long been appealing to government on the issue, and stressed that to see it implemented was a cheering news for the sector which was marred by high interest rates. The CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, had on Monday, explained that the reduction of interest rates on the apex bank’s intervention funds was part of the strategic measures to tackle the challenges raised by the COVID-19 scourge within the domestic economy. Mr. Emefiele noted that as a result of the pandemic, revenues accruing to businesses to run their activities and pay their bank loans were impacted negatively, and that thus the CBN expected difficulty of businesses to service their loans. He explained that, “All intervention loans currently under moratorium are granted additional moratorium of one year on all principal repayments effective March, 2020. Accordingly, participating financial institutions are hereby directed to provide amortisation schedule to reflect the new order. He further said, “Interest rates on all applicable CBN facilities have been hereby reduced from nine to five per cent per annum for one year effective March 1, 2020. “The CBN hereby establishes a facility through NIRSAL Microfinance Bank to the sum of N50bn for households, MSMEs that have been particularly hit by COVID-19, including but not limited to, hoteliers, airline service providers, healthcare merchants and so on.” Ecobank to increase funding for agric sector Emefiele’s ambitious agenda CBN’s new lifeline for real sector