Residents around Karu Market, Karu, Abuja, have expressed concern over the huge crowd that gathered at the market on Tuesday to witness the election of the market officials amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The Karu Market Butchers, Meat Sellers Association (KMBMSA) defied the ban by the FCT minister on gatherings of more than 50 people to conduct election of their officials. Secretary of the association, Ridwan Sulaiman Dinka, said the election which held at a separate ground was conducted under tight security and that precautionary measures were taken. “Our umbrella association at the FCTA authorised this election. We conducted the election in a well arranged manner. We provided a space, wall, masks for officials and observers and police were there to maintain security of voters. “The officials maintained the arrangement and ensured that there was no crowd. People were screened into the election space and only those eligible to vote were allowed in,” he added. But some residents who spoke to City News said the crowd was large as people mingled without observing the social distancing order. A resident around the market, Ahmad Mu’azu, said “the crowd was large at the place. This has violated the order of the FCT minister that gatherings of more than 50 people should be suspended. More than 50 people were here and we have to be worried”. A customer at the market, Idris Abubakar, said “I also heard that there was a crowd at the market yesterday because of an event they organised. This is why I decided to wear my mask while coming to the market because I don’t know what might happen. Nobody knows who has the virus and so everyone has to be careful.” On her part, Regina Simon said “I will soon stop coming to the market because of the nature of the spread of the virus. There are people who don’t think the virus is real. It is on the news all over but people down here are not taking it serious. People go about their normal businesses as if nothing is happening.”  FCT election peaceful but, say observers, voters Maraba traders chased off Abuja-Keffi express Crisis stalls Nkpor spare parts market association’s elections