The National Association of Nigerian Traders (NANTS) has expressed its readiness to collaborate with the Central Bank of Nigeria in carrying out critical information dissemination among traders and SME operators, and conduct trainings, particularly on the palliatives and their accessibility process and criteria for accessing the bank’s intervention funds. The traders’ umbrella body, in a statement issued on Friday by its National President, Barr. Ken Ukaoha, called on the apex bank to shed more light on the general principles of the palliatives and commended the foresight of the present administration on cushioning the impacts of the Coronavirus on the economy, particularly on the SMEs sector of the nation’s economy. Specifically, the group expressed its satisfaction with the non-collateralization of some aspects of the disbursement by the apex bank meant for traders and other Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) members. It further charged the CBN to provide effective monitoring of the planned loans and incentives so that the facility windows do not go the way of previous well-intended financial instruments. According to the group, such window must strictly target the entrepreneurs operating within the poverty bracket, and with poverty reduction and sustainable development at the core of their objectives. This is even as it also charged all commercial banks in the country to rise to their pro-development calling and see these initiatives as palliatives that should be implemented with the spirit of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), with a view to rebuilding and strengthening the economy. It clarified: “The Banks that are targeted to be used as disbursement tracks should ensure that all bulwarks that hinder access by genuine applicants are clearly avoided and removed. More so, the process, the access and the approval of applications must be made more transparent and devoid of consideration of political, religious or social affiliations. This is the only way genuine trust can be built by recipients. “Furthermore, we strongly advise that the financial window should target raising domestic production by increasing the band for actors, particularly in the local agricultural commodities sector, so as to reduce unnecessary food import bills, boost and or cushion local raw materials production; and especially as a means of dealing with and addressing the ‘corona virus laden economy’. Essentially, women entrepreneurs should also be given serious attention and provided unhindered access to the funds”, it added The association also advised traders and entrepreneurs nationwide to make use of the opportunity and also ensure accurate and timely repayment of accessed loans. Why we are creating National Micro Finance Bank - CBN As CBN begins pre-emptive move towards exchange rate convergence Stakeholders lament slow take-off of CBN’s N220bn MSMEs fund