The State House, Abuja, is in a partial lockdown because of the measure to stop the spread of Covid-19 in the country. Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, told State House reporters yesterday that events at the Presidential Villawere just on a low key. Speaking on the present situation of things in the Villa, he said: “Well, things are a bit on a low key, it doesn’t mean that the State House is shut down, it’s just that things are a bit on the low key just like the rest of the country. The rest of the country is also on a low key, there is partial lockdown in most parts of the country. So, what is happening at the State House can also be called a partial lockdown, but not a complete lockdown.” He said the yesterday’s Federal Executive Council meeting was suspended to avoid a gathering that would exceed the recommended number at this time. He said: “The council was suspended because of the size. You have over 50 people seated in the Council Chambers whenever the meeting holds and that is not advisable at a time like this. “But if there would be a very important decision to be taken, you can always summon the relevant people, three, four or five and hold a small meeting and arrive at a decision. “It does not mean that one man is going to be taking all the decisions. Of course, yes, there are executive decisions, but the ones that must pass through consultations of which must have a buy in of the Federal Executive Council can always be discussed at a smaller meeting.” Adesina said the fact that President Muhammadu Buhari tested negative for coronavirus called for rejoicing. He said: “Good. So that calls for rejoicing with him. Anybody that does the test and test negative we will rejoice with that person. And anybody that does it and tests positive, it’s not a death sentence. We also would pray along with the person, give the person our goodwill and best wishes and they will surely come out of it. Even the index case in Nigeria recovered and has been discharged. So, God that has shown us mercy thus far will continue to show that mercy. Anybody that tests positive, it is not a death sentence, they will be attended to, they will be tested and they will be fine.” He advised Nigerians against panic, saying “Panic will not be the right thing to do because when you panic, you are bound to make mistakes. When you panic, you get agitated and the situation does not call for that, rather it calls for cooperation with government. “When they give instructions, let’s abide by those instructions. And a number of things have been put in place to ensure that the wellbeing of Nigerians is taken care of.” He expressed optimism that a lot of measures had been adopted to protect those operating in the presidency against COVID-19.  Stay at home, wash your hands, maintain social distance Before testing positive for COVID-19, Kyari mingled with govs, ministers, others ‘Kaduna lockdown order does not affect us’