Lagos state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said that his administration would deploy equipment to fumigate the entire state. This effort, he said, seeks to keep the environment safe and curtail the contagion of coronavirus (COVID-19). Sanwo-Olu, who disclosed this on Thursday via his official Twitter handle: @jidesanwoolu, said the fumigation machines will be deployed to every part of the metropolis for sterilization of public spaces and surfaces. “We are very aggressive in our efforts to combat the novel Coronavirus in the state. We all have to take responsibility and do our part in ensuring we remain safe and healthy,” he said.   Daily Trust reports that the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had on Wednesday evening confirmed five new COVID-19 cases in Nigeria, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 51. The centre said two new cases were recorded in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), two in Lagos state and one in Rivers state. The centre also noted that three of the cases were returning travellers into Nigeria while two were close contacts of a confirmed case. So far, Lagos has 32 cases, FCT- 10, Ogun – 3, just as one case each has been recorded in Ekiti, Oyo, Edo, Bauchi, Osun and Rivers. Daily Trust had earlier today also reported that six out of the patients that are being treated for the coronavirus in Lagos have recovered and will soon be discharged from the Infectious Diseases Hospital, Yaba. The governor further stressed the need to adhere strictly to all the directives that are being issued by the health authorities including: social distancing; obedience to simple rules of personal and environmental hygiene, such as covering of mouth while coughing or sneezing; no handshakes and touching of noses or faces; regular hand washing with soap and water, and the regular use of hand sanitizers, among others. COVID-19: Sanwo-Olu deploys disinfectant equipment to fumigate Lagos All VIPs must undergo COVID-19 checks, Sanwo-Olu tells airport workers COVID-19: Lagos activates State Emergency Operations Centre