A former Minister of Finance, Dr. Shamsudeen Usman, has stressed the importance of tax reforms in states due to the dwindling allocation from the centre as a result of fluctuating oil price. Dr. Usman who is also a former CBN deputy governor, said states needed to diversify their revenue bases to avoid overdependence on federal allocation. He spoke at a stakeholders sensitisation programme on the Sokoto State Internal Revenue Law 2019 held at the auditorium of the Sultan Muhammadu Maccido Institute for Qur’an and General Studies on Monday. He expressed displeasure at the abolition of tax in some states, noting that tax was a critical tool in good governance, explaining that, “It helps in resource redistribution and analysis and encourages good behaviors among the citizenry. “As a citizen, if you pay tax you will have boldness in asking questions as what the money is been used for.” He explained that for government to avoid tax evasion, the tax collectors had to avoid multiple and retrogressive taxation which he noted put more burden on low income earners. The economist advised the government to be accountable, imbibe effective service delivery and block leakages in the bid to implement the new law. In his remarks, Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State explained that the law was intended to boost Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) and block leakages in order to accrue maximum funds for government activities. Gov. Tambuwal said the state government was receiving about N4.2bn from the federation account, but that it used about N3bn for salaries. He noted that they required more funds to address challenges in the area of security, health, education, among others. In his vote of thanks, the state Commissioner for Finance, Abdulsamad Dasuki, urged the people of the state to support the government in its bid to meet their yearnings and aspirations, and added that the law would take effect from May 15, 2020. Friendly business environment grows tax revenue – FIRS boss Positioning tax system for 21st century trend- part 1 Business and the burden of numerous taxes