 There seems to be no more auspicious time than now for Nigeria to diversify its economy and end several decades of overdependence on oil revenue to mitigate the negative effects of yearly external shocks that have made achievement of key objectives of national budgets rather impossible. With the ravaging impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on global economies, including Nigeria’s, development experts have expressed consensual views about the desirability of totally diversifying the nation’s economy and properly positioning it on the path of sustainable and inclusive growth. One of the alternatives identified by them is rapid industrialisation, which they believe can partly be achieved by exploring the opportunities in the country’s Free Trade Zones (FTZs) to boost Foreign Exchange (Forex) earnings and create jobs. According to information sourced from the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), Nigeria could have earned over $20bn from the activities of FTZs in about 25 years of introducing them. The Federal Government owns the Calabar Free Zone and the Kano Free Zone while the rest are privately owned. Data from NEPZA show that in 25 years, the authority has licensed 40 FTZs and industrial parks, as well as over 400 Free Zone Enterprises (FZEs). However, most of the FTZs, particularly the privately owned ones, have remained unutilised and unable to fulfill the socio-economic purposes of establishing them. An expert, Dr. Joseph Uzodinma, told Daily Trust that there was need for government to revisit agreements and licences granted to some investors to develop the private free zones. Dr. Udodinma, who is an economist, said some investors granted licence to develop free zones might not have the financial capability and needed experience to develop them. He said private sector-led free zones were capital-intensive, as the developer would have to invest heavily in basic amenities to be able to attract other investors for the proper take off of the zone. He explained that, “What is happening now is that they get the licenses from the government, put them in their pockets and start looking for secondary investors to develop the virgin sites for them. This is not how it works in other climes. You must put in your money first. Develop it before other investors will come in.” While calling on NEPZA to review ownership of licensed FTZs in the country, he tasked the Federal Government to raise a team to understudy the operations of FTZs in other countries such as China, Singapore and United Arab Emirates (UAE) on how they had been able to make theirs viable. Information sourced from NEPZA indicates that of the 40 FZs, 14 are at the moment operational, while the rest are still under various stages of development. Some of the licensed FTZs are the Nigeria International Commerce City, also known as Eko-Atlantic ($38bn), with targeted job-creation put at one million; the Nigeria Centenary City ($18bn), with envisaged job opportunities at 70,000. Others are Ogidigben Industrial Park in Delta State (N15bn), estimated to create 100,000 jobs; Maritime Economic Badagry City ($2.8bn), targeting 250,000 jobs; Nasco Town Free Zone ($2.1bn), estimated to provide 15,000 direct jobs) and the Badagry Creek Integrated Industrial Park ($1.3bn), with a target of 23,000 jobs, among others. Based on recent budgetary allocations, it seems the present government is keen on the development of FTZs and special economic zones across the country to ramp up industrialisation and export. The Nigeria Export Processing Zones Act 63 of 1992 was enacted to diversify the nation’s economy away from oil, fast-tracking industrialisation, to stimulate export-oriented business enterprises and manufacturing. However, an industrialist, Terhemba Dave Nongo, said in the last 20 years, prior to the coming of the present administration, Nigeria largely neglected the development of FTZs, a development which he added, retarded the country’s industrialisation drive. Nongo, who is the immediate past acting Managing Director of NEPZA, said successive governments were not committed to the concept of FTZs as yearly budgets were very low and hardly released. Analyses show that before the present government, the highest budgetary allocation to NEPZA was N2bn. Meanwhile, the Federal Government budgeted N50bn for the authority in 2017 and about the same figure in 2018. This shows increased awareness on the need to develop FTZs in obvious quest for industrialisation. A further evidence to demonstrate past governments’ unseriousness to industrialise the nation through export-oriented FTZs is the fact that the act backing the establishment of FTZs, including the Calabar Free Trade Zone, which was the first to be established in Nigeria, has not been amended in the last 27 years. Recently, Mr. Bitrus Dawuk assumed office as the acting Managing Director of NEPZA, promising that he would prioritise the amendment of the authority’s act to bring Nigeria’s FTZs at par with what obtains in other parts of the world; where they contribute substantially to economic development. Mr. Dawuk said new innovations in FTZs and special economic zones were excluded in the act; a development he said was hampering the activities of the authority. Increased demand by experts for Nigeria to invest in FTZs to ramp up non-oil revenue led to the Federal Government’s idea to cite Special Economic Zones (SEZs) across the country. On what the Federal Government is doing, Dawuk said upgrade of Kano and Calabar FTZs was ongoing, and that recently, NEPZA donated a 500KVA generator to Esuk Utan community, which hosts the Calabar Free Trade Zone to get the support of the host community. However, most FTZs in the country need upgrading, including electricity, roads and other basic infrastructure that will enable investors start manufacturing without spending much money on pre-production installations. It is important to note that many advanced countries, including UAE and China, earn huge Forex from exports of goods produced within their FTZs, and Nigeria can replicate this to replace declining oil revenues. A good example of why the Federal Government should invest more in FTZs is the recent announcement by China that it would invest billions in the next 20 years to develop a new free zone called Xiongan to create a technology and innovation hub. As Nigeria diversifies away from oil and focuses on non-oil revenues, FTZs offer a good alternative to oil for both job creation and industrialisation.  Free trade zone can end poverty,  unemployment  - experts Oyo gets $5b commitment from China for trade zone The Tinapa blackmail