The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammad Musa Bello and the United States Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Beth Leonard, have commissioned American Space at the City Library, Abuja yesterday. The American Space, which is a center designed to provide information about the US to Nigerians and other nationals resident in Abuja, contains collection of books, reference titles, works of fiction, business and government publications in English. The US Ambassador, Mary Beth Leonard, said American Spaces are special places and hubs for English language learning and teachers training. “They provide educational advises and information on studying in the United States. The Spaces are centres for alumni networking, projects and platforms for outreach and cultural programs. American Spaces are also tremendous sources for a wide range of information about the United States. All that will now be available at the Abuja City Library” she said. She added that the American Spaces Program has grown to over 700 spaces in 160 countries worldwide and that Nigeria has one each in Abuja and Lagos and 11 others spread all over the country. The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Muhammad Musa Bello, expressed delight over the gesture of the United States Embassy to create more sources of information for the people of the FCT and beyond. “The FCTA will continue to partner and work closely with the US Embassy to ensure that facilities provided under the American Space are sustained. The relationship between Nigeria and America is a very close and deep one and I wish gestures like this will continue to foster the relationship,” he said. The Minister, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, pledged the support of the FCT Administration towards improving the welfare of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the territory.  FG seeks stronger ties with US on agriculture US: Conditions Nigeria must meet to get visa ban lifted US agency gives Nigeria $60m for agribusiness