Ogun State Government on Wednesday banned high-density gatherings that could bring 50 or more people together, as part of precautions against the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state. Such places, according to the government, include social clubs, halls, cinemas, night clubs, restaurants, cafes, and sport arenas. EDITOR’S PICK: Lagos bans Friday prayers, church services over Coronavirus A statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Kunle Somorin, on Wednesday, said the ban would take effect for the next 30 days in the first instance. The government maintained that the restriction was enforced without prejudice to people’s fundamental rights to association and movement, saying “safety of our people and their welfare are priorities that cannot be toyed with.” The government added that it would continue to engage all the stakeholders, including our religious leaders and school owners to sensitise the populace on the need to maintain social distancing and collective effort to combat this pandemic. ALSO READ: 9 Northern states to shutdown schools over Coronavirus “Following measures so far taken to ramp up its efforts to contain the spread of the corona virus, the Ogun State Government has found it expedient to announce the following additional measures: “Immediate ban of all high-density gatherings that would bring together 50 or more persons in the same place, such as social clubs, halls, cinemas, night clubs, restaurants, cafes, and sport arenas. This measure will be in effect for the next 30 days in the first instance. “The government will continue the surveillance initiatives and intensify sensitisation on COVID-19. This is more so given the peculiarity of its location as the nation’s Gateway State and its industrial capital. Our epidemiologists and other health workers are working round the clock with Federal agencies and international development agencies to stop the spread of corona virus. READ THIS: Nigeria confirms five new coronavirus cases “In view of the recent confirmed cases in the country, Governor Dapo Abiodun reassures the populace that no stone will be left unturned to ensure that the state is prepared at all times to respond appropriately. He further encourages people to maintain a high level of suspicion and report any suspected case to the appropriate authorities,” the statement read.  Coronavirus latest: 39 contacts now quarantined, as cement company denies closure of production UPDATED: Cement factory quarantined as Govt begins contact tracing of Coronavirus victim Coronavirus: Italian patient has fully recovered, to be discharged soon — Gov Abiodun