The Senate, in a bid to improve Nigeria’s business climate, will commence work on the amendment of Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) on Tuesday. The bill, sponsored by the Senate Leader, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi (APC – Kebbi North), seeks to amend the Companies and Allied Matters Act (Chapter C20) Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 (CAMA). CAMA, enacted as a decree of the military government in 1990, has not been significantly amended in the last 28 years. According to Abdullahi, when passed into law, the business landscape in Nigeria will be reorganised and liberated hitherto from the heavy constraints of several provisions in the Companies and Allied Matters Act 1990, responsible for obstructing modern business practices in the light of national and global business reforms. It also seeks to provide an efficient means of regulating businesses, minimise the compliance burden of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), enhance transparency and shareholder engagement, and promote a friendly business climate in Nigeria. The legislation will also address the seeming stagnancy and primitive methods of doing business in Nigeria, essentially to meet up with the present international best practices as well as promote ease of doing business. The introduction of model netting provisions in the Bill as a means of mitigating credit risks, according to Abdullahi, would promote financial stability and investor confidence in the Nigerian Financial Sector, and increase investor confidence in the Nigerian Financial Sector as well as all sectors of the economy. Similarly, economic impact of the provisions of the Bill would ensure more business-friendly regulation for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). The amendment to CAMA is also expected to have the potential to increase activities of MSMEs, with the overall effect of growing the Nigerian economy in the process, providing more jobs and guaranteeing economic stability. Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, said the bill’s passage and assent into law would push Nigeria to the rank of first 100 countries in ease of doing business. According to a statement by Ezrel Tabiowo, the Senate President’s media assistant, Lawan promised that the Senate would fast-track its consideration and passage into law given its significance towards strengthening the economy.  CAC reviews 20-year law on companies, allied matters ‘Re-enactment of CAMA will boost investments’ Issues in NBA’s business workshop