The Movement for Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) has issued 48-hour ultimatum to herdsmen to vacate the Ogboli-Ohaja community in Awgu Local Government Area of Enugu state. The group warned that it should not be held responsible for the consequence of failure to comply with the ultimatum. The MASSOB ultimatum issued on Tuesday was sequel to an alleged attack by some herdsmen on a 32-year-old Kenneth Ude in his farm on Monday evening. However, Secretary to Enugu State Security Committee set up last year by Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Barrister Emmanuel Mbamalu told Daily Trust on phone: “We‘ve just finished a security meeting on the matter. We heard that there is massive destruction of farms by cows belonging to herdsmen in the area; the herdsmen, we learnt are from Abia State. “We’ve just alerted the new Chairman of Awgu Local Government Area to investigate the incident so that we can come in.” The alleged victim, Ude, was reportedly working on his cassava farm very close to his residence when some herders stormed the farm and allegedly fed their cows with the cassava produce. An attempt to stop the herders from destroying the farmland was said to have resulted to various machete cuts on the victim, after which they reportedly fled under the assumption that he was dead. But he was subsequently rescued and rushed to the Jideofor Medical Hospital, in Awgu, where he is recuperating. The development was said to have fuelled tension in the area as some angry youths combed the bushes in search of the fleeing herdsmen. Some Police officers from Awgu Division were said to have visited the hospital and taken pictures of the wounded victim. Deputy National Leader of MASSOB, Chief Ikechukwu Ekwe, told reporters that they would no longer tolerate killing of innocent people by herdsmen in the area. He said MASSOB has mobilised to “fish out any herder who might not heed the 48 hours ultimatum.” He stated that several farmlands have been destroyed in the area by rampaging herders, stressing that attempts to get authorities address the situation had proved abortive. But the Enugu State Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Daniel Ndukwe said he was yet to be briefed on the development, saying he would investigate what actually transpired between the two parties. Efforts to reach leader of herdsmen in the South East, Alhaji Gidado Sadiki were not successful as his phone line was inaccessible. MASSOB asks herdsmen to vacate Enugu community in 48 hours Concerns in Enugu over killing of Catholic priest Committee threatens  to evict herdsmen from Enugu community