The Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, has tested negative for coronavirus. The IGP received the result of the test this morning, 31st March, 2020 having submitted samples on Friday, 27th March, 2020, Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba has disclosed in a statement. Mba said his own result also returned negative. He said other officers who also tested negative include; the Principal Staff Officer to the IGP, DCP Idowu Owohunwa; Head of the Force Technical Intelligence Unit, DCP Lanre Ogunlowo; Personal Physician to the IGP, CSP (Dr) Nonye Welle; Medical Officer, Police Clinic, Force Headquarters, Abuja CSP (Dr) Titus Adegbite; Secretary to the IGP, SP Moses Jolugbo and five (5) other close aides to the IGP. While noting that policing is a high-contact job with its attendant risks, the IGP enjoined police officers nationwide to adhere strictly to all precautionary and safety measures in the course of their day-to-day activities, according to the statement. He equally enjoined members of the public to voluntarily obey all restriction orders emplaced by the constituted authorities. There were fears that the IGP might have contracted the virus having been in close contact with the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Abba Kyari who has since tested positive for coronavirus. Kyari arrived at Lagos last Monday in an Air ambulance to continue his treatment. Kyari, last Sunday, said he left Abuja for Lagos to do additional tests and observation. The President’s Chief of Staff said the decision he took based on medical advice was also a precautionary measure. Kyari said in a letter that he made his personal care arrangements to avoid further burdening the public health system, which faces so many pressures. President Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, many governors, ministers and other top government functionaries had mingled with Kyari shortly before he tested positive for the coronavirus (COVID-19). Kyari, who returned to Nigeria from Germany on March 14, had participated in several state functions and unofficial engagements that attracted prominent personalities. Shiites protest: IGP orders 24hrs surveillance on FCT, environs Abuja blast: IGP call for unity against terror IGP redeploys senior police officers