It is now a common sight in Nguru to see youngsters engaged in dressing of chickens and other birds. More interesting is the fact that many of them are graduates of higher institutions who obtained either a diploma or degree certificates. Many of them told Kanem Trust that the business is providing them with their day to day needs and are happy with it. “I have been in this business for more than  20 years now,’’  Sani Ringo, who is one of the pioneer in  the business told Kanem Trust. “It started one day in the market, when a man who used to come from Kano to buy ducks from us, said he had realized that people who bought chickens in the market could not find anybody to dress them. He advised me to open a place for chicken dressing. He said he took the advice and opened a place where the business grew within a short time. “I started charging N10 per chicken and I was making up to N5000  in a week. But for now I can make between N3000 and N4000 in a day. All what I achieved in life was through this business.” Nuhu Usman, 31 said he started the business since 2007. He said he used the proceed to build a house and got married. Usman said he has earlier obtained an Advance Diploma in Public Administration since 2014. It was also a happy story for Abba Maikaza, 28, who said he ventured in to the business while he was in Secondary School. “I hold a diploma certificate in Computer Studies, and now I’m happily married with one child and planning to further my studies to degree level anytime.” However, a Sanitation expert, Audu Gazali, advised those engaged in the business to use modern tools, such as hand gloves,  while carrying out the job to guard against contracting diseases. He also advised them to ensure the environment, where they operate is always clean. Also a veterinarian, Abdullahi Sabo, stressed the need to always use hand gloves while handling chicken. “Some chickens may have zoonotic disease and if a person’s blood contacted the affected chicken then he will be infected.  So using hand glove is important as a preventive measure,” he said. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Veterinary Medical Association (NVMA), Yobe state chapter, has provided the youths with disinfectants, brushes, hand gloves, wheel barrows and rain boots to some operators.  ‘I started my biz with 5 chicks’ Egg dealers of Jos: Benefitting from an egg-friendly weather Ramadan: Agric produce on high demand