The Federal Capital Territory Administration has promised to increase the bed space capacities of Gwagwalada Specialist Hospital and Karu General Hospital to take care of emergencies arising from  of coronavirus pandemic. FCT Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, who stated this during an inspection of medical facilities in both Gwagwalada Specialist Hospital and Karu General Hospital, on Saturday,  said provisions have been made for 32 bed spaces in Gwagwalada, while that of Karu will accommodate 300 patients. A statement by the minister’s media aide, Austine Elemue, said it was a proactive measure to respond to any emergency, calling on residents to stay safe and observe all precautionary measures put in place by relevant authorities. “We are here in Gwagwalada Specialist Hospital to see the facilities put in place for symptomatic patients of coronavirus. About 16 bed capacity is almost ready and we are setting up another 16 bed capacity, bringing the total to 32 bed spaces. They are all isolated cubicles. We had a donation of oxygen plant from NNPC. We will run the pipe immediately to supply the oxygen. “Our preparedness is not to instill fear in the minds of the public, but the truth is that we have to be prepared because we are all witnesses to what is happening in other climes. There are more cases of symptomatic patients on ground and it is such patients that will be taken here. Therefore, the message is stay safe, stay alive,” she stated. The minister gave the contractors handling the Karu general hospital project 48 hours to finish the facility, otherwise get the contract terminated, stressing that the Karu facility will accommodate 300 patients. “This Karu facility will accommodate about 300 patients and we are here to inspect the facility and the level of preparedness. The contractors are about to commence work and to install the oxygen plant to ensure that there is enough oxygen supply for confirmed cases. We are giving the contractors 48 hours to ensure that the job is done as scheduled or get the contract terminated,” she said.  Patients moan as lack of manpower, equipment suffocates general hospitals Aso page 40 At AKTH, even newborn  struggles for bed space