Technological advancement has made some professions fizzle into thin air, while some are still battling to meet up with the ever-evolving innovative world of technology. Street photography – a once sort after profession, is gradually disappearing. Daily Trust Saturday visited some street photographers and they shared how their stories have been over the years. “Before I moved to Abuja, I was an analogue photographer in my village in Jos. The analogue camera works with a film called negative; films are just like the memory cards we have today, they store the pictures, so films are not exposed to direct sunlight to avoid damage. “The analogue camera does not have the feature to preview snapshots. When you take shots, even if the person’s eyes are closed; you cannot preview or edit, it just stores in the film, you only get to find out when the picture is printed. If you take your mind back to those good old days, people make fun of a picture when a person’s eyes were closed, they could say the person is sleeping.” This is Moses Damolaq, a street photographer, comparing photography of yesteryears with what it has become today. It is his sixth year in the profession and he says his passion for his work has kept him in business despite the fast evolution in photography. “Today, I make N4000 daily but six years ago I made above N15000 in a day. With that, I was able to build three bedrooms in my village. Though, my younger brother now lives in the house, he is married with three children, I cannot ask him to leave the house, so I am planning to build another house. After all, I’m based in Abuja and he is based in the village. Mr. Damolaq said despite all he went through, he never quit street photography because he believed that someday, it will get better. “When I came to Abuja, I started as a mason; I carried head pans piled with cement to bricklayers on site, I kept on doing that. One day, my uncle saw me while he was passing the site where I was working. He asked why I was doing the job of a mason, and I told him I have to find my daily bread. He asked me to come and meet him in his house.” “When I got to my uncle’s house, he said, ‘Mason job will make you grow old quickly, let me get you a job as a security man,’ I told him no problem. He got me the security job, my first salary was N12000 in 2011 and later in 2015, it was increased to N15000. “From my salary, I was able to save and buy a small camera; it is called free-focus, because it does not have a definite focus when you want to take a shot. That was how street photography started for me. That little device birthed my first digital camera, which cost N80000. I kept on saving and I was able to buy my printer box and other printing materials like the card, ink, scissors, and stapler.” Similarly, Jacob David Solomon has been into photography since 2007, in Jabi. He said despite the huge difference in patronage between 2007 and 2020, people still take passport photographs every day as an official requirement to complete a documentation process. “I worked at Jabi Lake in 2013 as a photographer. That time, when families come to Jabi Lake, I was always happy because I was sure of making good money for the day. Now, people coming to Jabi Lake have their phones, they even tell photographers ‘my phone is more expensive than the camera you are holding. What my phone can snap, your camera cannot snap’.” Mr. Jacob said in terms of picture quality, snap shots from phones cannot be compared to the high resolution pictures from photographic cameras, as no matter how much you zoom into those pictures, they cannot pixelate. According to Jacob, few people were into photography in 2013 compared to now because they looked down on the profession not knowing how much we gained from it. “Most people dress in corporate attires and walk past me every day to earn N20000 after a month. I can make N20000 when lots of customers come around in a day. I’m not trying to underrate anybody’s job but to be real, the job was that good, that time,” he said. Another photographer Mr. Joseph said that every profession is all about packaging. “The photographer who snaps President Buhari or his vice Osibanjo is not different from me. I can challenge him professionally. However, because of the personalities he photographs, I can never be compared to him.” Joseph said he left photography for four years and switched to other jobs because he never had long-term plans to remain in the profession. After four years, he returned to photography because of the profit he made from it. He added that he became a professional photographer in 2012. “Whether the government is bad or not, it doesn’t affect me; there is nothing I desire to eat that my money cannot buy me because I have a profession. I am a street photographer and I am not ashamed. People wandering about jobless on the street should stop complaining. They should stop saying they don’t have what to. Once they work hard, they will have a means to earn. After all, I bought my car from snapping passport photographs on the street,” he added. Mallam Salisu Haruna, 36, said he has been into street photography since 2006, he is specialized in taking passport photograph. “I realized that there was high patronage in passport photograph at that time, so I was encouraged to continue, I made over N15000 as profit in a week and it was a lot of money for me. In 2007, the competition became too high; I was forced to diversify, so I began to go out to the street to photogragh people in their shops. I also scout and stop by at social gatherings to capture willing clients. People began to love my picture and I was getting recommendation almost on daily basis.” “In 2008, more people trooped into the profession, and as a result, my daily income kept reducing. A day came when I was passing by a boarding school, I decided to take permission from the security guards to take pictures of the boarding students, but they refused; they said I had to speak to the management, which I did. The management asked me to pay a token, they also told me to be in the school premises only from 4pm to 6pm because that was when the children had time for leisure activities. In fact, that year was a great year for me because I recorded the highest turnover.” Mallam Salisu said he made N350000 within the space of three months. He added that he was able to establish a photography studio, bought cameras and some lighting equipment.  For him, though the profession keeps evolving, “I am doing my best to remain relevant in the profession.” Tam Fiofori: Telling Nigeria’s story in pictures An oba’s coronation: A tale of two generations of photographers ‘What drew me to documentary photography’