Customers of First City Monument Bank (FCMB) and Nigerians and business owners in Agege, Oko-Oba, Abule-egba, Ojokoro and environs now have an opportunity to further enjoy the product and service offerings of the bank. The bank on Monday has opened a technology-powered cash centre within the Lagos State Abattoir Complex, Oko-Oba Road in Agege, in line with its expansion approach and commitment towards bringing banking services directly to the doorsteps of its existing and potential customers According to the management, the location of the branch takes into consideration the convenience of residents and businesses in these communities and would go a long way to promote financial inclusion in the country. Apart from the team of experienced financial experts deployed in the Cash Centre, it is equipped with top class traditional banking and digital infrastructure that will ensure convenient banking transactions and sundry financial service delivery to customers in a relaxed and tranquil environment. In his address at the ceremony, the Divisional Head, Service Management and Technology of FCMB, Mr. Oluwakayode Adigun, said with the opening of the cash centre, individuals and businesses now have an opportunity to access another convenient location for their transactions, with the aim to further enjoy the valued-added offerings which the Bank has been known for since its establishment 37 years ago. He said: “A unique feature of the Cash Centre is the installation of solar technology, which is a clean energy solution that produces minimal waste, is non-pollutant and great for the environment. This is part of our commitment towards promoting a cleaner and greener environment through renewable energy. “We therefore urge existing and potential customers to take advantage of the benefits which the cash centre offers by executing their transactions with FCMB, My Bank and I’’. The bank’s Regional Head, Lagos, Mr. Oliver Opara, reaffirmed the bank’s commitment to grow its network to meet the individual and business aspirations of its ever-increasing customer base across segments. According to him, the management of the bank considers the presence at the Agege abattoir as another veritable opportunity to further cement our relationship with Lagos and in turn, drive development in this part of the state in view of the fact that the abattoir has become one of the major landmarks and bedrock of commercial activities in the state. The Regional Head, who was represented by the bank’s Zonal Head, Lagos Island, Mr. Emmanuel Comla, assured that, “as an inclusive lender, we recognise that the only way we can succeed is when we support our customers to succeed. We are committed to scale our operations, build the requisite capabilities and deploy the best ways to simplify banking for our array of customers to fulfil their aspirations.’’ In his goodwill speech, the Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal, who was represented by a Director in the Ministry, Dr. Rasheed Macaulay, recalled that “when FCMB approached the State Government for a land to construct a cash centre at the Abattoir complex, we did not hesitate because of the track record of the bank. “We are optimistic that the presence of FCMB in this environment will further bring prosperity to individuals and businesses”, the commissioner added.   FCMB launches Easy Account FCMB excites more customers with cash, gifts at ‘’Millionaire Promo Season 6’’ 3rd draws Sterling Bank targets 100 new branches