The River State Government has announced that air, sea and land routes into the state will be closed to traffic, beginning from 6am, Thursday, March 26, 2020. This is a move to check the spread of coronavirus to Rivers State, according to the government. In a broadcast on Wednesday, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, said that the measure became necessary in view of recent developments. He said: “It is with gratitude to God that I announce to you that our state would have been infected with coronavirus yesterday, but for the vigilance of security agents who, acting on a tip- off, prevented an infected person from boarding a flight from Abuja to Port Harcourt. “The infected person beat all security measures that were put in place at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja and was to sneak into Port Harcourt before security agents stopped her. “Based on this alarming Information, the State Security Council met yesterday and reviewed measures already put in place and decided that there was urgent need to adopt stringent measures to protect those living and doing business in the state from the virus. “The council has therefore taken the following painful decisions: “With effect from 6pm on Thursday, March 26, 2020, the Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa will not be open to air traffic. While we may not have the right to stop flights from entering Port Harcourt, we cannot allow anybody coming from the airport to enter our State. We are confident that the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and other federal agencies will cooperate with us. “All land and sea borders will be closed. “Vehicular movements in an out of the state have been banned. In essence, no vehicle will leave Rivers State for any other State and no vehicle will be allowed to enter the state,” governor Wike stated in the broadcast. Governor Wike said that the new measures will be in place till further notice. AS GLOBAL DEATH TOLL TOPS 10,000: Mosques offer prayers  against spread of coronavirus Army’s shutdown of Rivers security group gets political CORONAVIRUS: More quarantined amid intensified screening