“Pensioners hail El-Rufai for raising minimum pension to N30,000,” story headlines in some newspapers recently screamed in half praise, half excitement. Indeed, the story that some 11, 511 pensioners on the Defined Benefit Scheme will be liberated from the shackles of N3, 000 monthly pension is exciting and worthy of celebrating. The willingness of the Kaduna State Government led by Nasir El-Rufai to pay pensioners in the state a minimum of N30, 000 monthly, being the first state government in the country to do so, deserves commendation. Indeed, the leaders and members of the Kaduna State branch of the Nigerian Union of Pensioners (NUP) has commended the Kaduna State governor for raising the minimum pension to N30,000 monthly. The union while commending the governor through Alhaji Abdu Ramalan Kwarbai, the Kaduna State chairman of the NUP, noted that Malam Nasir El-Rufai is the first governor to promise and actually take steps to pay N30, 000 minimum pensions, which in their view, “shows his concern for the senior citizens in Kaduna state.” Alhaji Abdu recalled and acknowledged that, to his credit, Malam Nasir El-Rufai is the first governor in the country to pay the new national minimum wage of N30, 000 monthly. The governor explained that he found the low pension paid to the 11,511 pensioners as no longer acceptable to him and the government of Kaduna State. The Kaduna State executive council approved the new minimum pension, which will add N200 million monthly to the government’s payroll charge, or N2.4 billion per annum. The increase of the minimum pension to N30, 000 has more significance beyond increasing the purchasing power of the individual pensioner. It enhances the psychological comfort of the beneficiaries, boosts their sense of belonging and the feeling that they are seen as assets, not liabilities, who are worthy of earned respect. Their self-confidence is similarly amplified. They will certainly now believe that their past services to the state have been appreciated by a governor who treasures their sacrifices and contributions to the state. The Kaduna State government is a trail blazer in terms of doing the right things for pensioners and serving workers. It has also embraced the Contributory Pension Scheme for its workforce, albeit with a few gaps that need plugging. It has introduced a contributory universal health care service, which will benefit pensioners and their families. I hope its establishment law has provisions that greatly favour pensioners, the elderly and those on Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) programme of the Federal government by waving the treatment charges for most of the illnesses that come with, or manifest, in old age. Whilst the Pension Watch Column monitors the implementation of the N30,000 minimum pension in Kaduna State, it is appropriate at this juncture to urge states that pay pensioners less than N10, 000 monthly as pension to review it upward, even if it is only up to two-thirds of N30,000 in the first instance. As Abia State Government attempts to clean its pension payroll by biometric capture of its retirees, it is the prayer of this column that the biometric data capture is not a ruse that will only benefit the contractors engaged for the data capturing exercise. The Abia State government should address its N21 billion unpaid pension. That money should be sourced and paid to the retirees. This can be done if the necessary political will is mustered by the government in Umuahia. One irony with pension debt is that, even states that receive hefty amounts of money from the monthly Federation Account Allocations, such as Delta, are reluctant to pay pensioners their entitlements for months in stretch. The NUP should give genuine, earned and credible award to the governor who based on reason and wisdom is paying a minimum pension equal to the minimum wage.  Sanitise pension scheme, pensioners appeal to El-Rufai Protests mar pension sector in 2015 page 26 Retrospect