As the world leaders continues the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic with stronger zeal, the African Telecommunications Union (ATU) has advised telecom/ICT regulatory authorities across Africa to urgently grant telecom/ICT service licences necessary to support emergency telecom/ICT efforts. The ATU, in a statement issued in Nairobi, Kenya on Monday by the Secretary-General, Mr John Omo, said  the free of charge licences should be temporary and valid only during the period of emergency response and recovery until the government has determined that there is no further need for the service being provided. Africa has so far recorded relatively few coronavirus cases compared to the rest of the world. Twenty-seven African countries have recorded over 500 coronavirus cases. Egypt leads in cumulated confirmed cases at over 196, South Africa 116, Algeria 72, Morocco 49, Senegal 36 and Nigeria 36. Other countries with over ten cases include Tunisia, Burkina Faso, D.R. Congo, Rwanda and Cameroon. However, Heads of States and Governments across the continent are taking no chances as they race to stop the spread of the virus by sensitizing their citizens about the pandemic and the various ways to combat the disease. But the ATU said telecommunications regulator and providers in the continent should implement a number of guidelines to help in combating the virus. He said: “Regulators should implement the Common Alerting Protocol (CAP) to enable authorities to effectively prevent and mitigate the spread of Covid-19. The CAP involves the use of multiple modes of communication to educate members of the public including vulnerable groups about the disease as well as the preventive measures. According to the ATU, the CAP will make it possible for members of the public to receive CAP-originated information in many ways, such as through mobile and landline telephones, Internet (e-mail, Google, Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, smartphone apps, online advertising, Internet of Things (IoT) devices, in-home smart speakers, etc.), sirens (in-building or outdoor), broadcast radio and television, cable television, emergency radio, amateur radio, satellite direct broadcast, and digital signage networks (highway signs, billboards, automobile and rail traffic control), among others. ‘’As the continents fight the Covid-19 pandemic, the telecom/ICT regulatory authority should urgently grant telecom/ICT service licenses necessary to support emergency telecom/ICT efforts. “Therefore, exceptional expedited licensing procedures should be in place, free of charge, for use. These licenses should be temporary and valid only during this period of emergency response and recovery until the government has determined that there is no further need for the service being provided’’, the continental telecom body stated.  Coronavirus: 46,550 confirmed cases in China as it spreads to Africa Expert urges professionalism in technology sector COVID-19: As Nigeria slowly moves into lockdown