The Federal Ministry of Health has confirmed another case of coronavirus disease (( COVID-19) in the country. This brings the total number of confirmed cases in Nigeria to three. Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire made the disclosure Tuesday while briefing newsmen in Abuja. He said the latest case was a Nigerian national in her 30s, who returned from a short visit to the United Kingdom on March 13th . The minister said the patient decided, to go on a 14-day self-isolation when she returned to the country but subsequently developed symptoms of fever and cough on March 16th , at which point she voluntarily called the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) toll free call line, to report her condition. He said officials from the Lagos State Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) were immediately dispatched to her home to collect samples, which upon testing came out positive for the coronavirus. ” The lady is currently at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH) in Yaba, where she has remained clinically stable and is responding to treatment,” he said. Dr Ehanire said intensive contact tracing has begun, to help identify all persons who the patient has been in contact with since her return , adding, “We expect the number to be small, because of her sensible decision to go into self-isolation from the time of her arrival. We commend her for following the recommended guidelines to the latter.” He said the Federal Ministry of Health would continue to assess the situation and adjust response accordingly. The minister also promised to provide updates on the banning of flights into Nigeria or social activities and festivals, after the deliberations of the Inter-ministerial meeting on the Presidential Taskforce on Coronavirus which would hold later today. It is headed by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. While advising Nigerians to continue taking necessary precautions to protect themselves and their families, Dr Ehanire said that many people infected with coronavirus would experience only mild symptoms and recover without incident. ” Of great concern are those with existing underlying medical conditions and senior citizens, who are known to be more vulnerable. We strongly advise these citizens to stay more at home,” he said. Coronavirus: Over 100 quarantined, as Italian recovers in Lagos – Commissioner Nigeria’s Coronavirus latest: 28 Quarantined in Ogun Coronavirus: Nigerian patient discharged, as Italian contacts end 14 days isolation