The Forum of State Chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday passed a vote of confidence on the embattled National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Their position came at a time the plot to remove Oshiomhole is gathering momentum. His latest trouble started last Wednesday when an Abuja High Court ordered his suspension. A counter-order he secured at the Federal High Court in Kano, has not halted the plot to oust him. But in a statement yesterday, the forum said it has resolved to stand firm behind Oshiomhole and that it would go to any length to defend the sanctity of the constitution of the party. The forum, in a statement signed by its chairman, Ali Bukar Dolari (Borno State APC chairman) and secretary of the forum, Dr Ben Iwoye (Enugu State party chairman), urged warring camps in the party to seek political solutions. “We observe that the issues presented before the two high courts that are tearing our party apart are political. Thus, we respectfully request that all parties seek political solutions. We urge all parties to return back to the dispute resolution and reconciliation committee set up by our leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, and led by our founding National Chairman, Bisi Akande,” they said. The party chairmen, while dissociating themselves from the machinations to oust Oshiomhole, said his removal would only weaken the party. “The state chairmen being members of NEC and critical stakeholders of our party, dissociate ourselves from the ongoing brigandage intended to disorganise the peace we have been enjoying in the party. These acts if successful would only weaken the political strength of our great party. “We the state chairmen frown at the level of impunity being experienced in our great party in which, unauthorised individuals will issue press statements using the name of our party to deceive the leaders of the party and the unsuspecting public, thereby causing disaffection among the party leadership. “All individuals involved in this practice should be mindful that their conduct is prohibited under the relevant sections of our party constitution” the said. They, however, lamented that the people who worked for their party are yet to be rewarded, and urged President Muhammadu Buhari to fulfil his pledge on that. “As leaders of our party at the grassroots, we are more concerned with the lack of rewards for our party faithful, especially women and youths who worked tirelessly to enthrone this government. “We need stronger and healthy party faithful to face the opposition PDP in 2023. We should all focus on strengthening the party and enhancing our reward mechanism instead of weakening the party leadership with manufactured legal claims. “In 2019, the deplorable situation of our reward system compelled us to issue a 10-day ultimatum to secure empowerment for our party supporters. We are still waiting patiently for the fulfilment of the promise by our dear presidency,” they said. I’m not part of endorsement – Ekiti chair But the chairman of the party in Ekiti State, Barrister Paul Omotoso, has said that he was not part of those who threw their weights behind Oshiomhole. Omotoso, pointed out that he was not part of the meeting, urging that those who took the decision should be identified. Let’s uphold our party’s constitution – Gombe gov Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State has said the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) should uphold the constitution in the current leadership tussle rocking the party. The governor, who spoke through his spokesman, Anas Ibrahim Kubalu, called on his fellow party members to adhere to the rule of law to amicably resolve the crisis rocking the APC. He said Governor Yahaya has no preferred candidate but is rather in support of any decision in line with the rules and regulations governing the party. Oshiomhole’s suspension stands, NEC holds March 17 – NWC faction Acting National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Chief Victor Giadom has said that Oshiomhole, is still on suspension based on the FCT High Court judgement. He also insisted that the decision to call for an emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting was taken in strict compliance within the constitution of the party. The trio of Babatunde Ogala Esq (legal adviser) Mallam Lanre Onilu (publicity secretary) and Arc Waziri Bulama (newly appointed secretary yet to be inaugurated) had issued a statement puncturing the NEC meeting called by Giadom. But Giadom while reacting said the notice issued by the trio was not only aimed at creating mischief in the party but misleading the esteemed members of the NEC and the general public. We’ve no faction – NWC There is no faction among us, the National Working Committee (NWC) has said. The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu in a statement said in a political organisation such as the APC, contestations are not unusual and are not necessarily intractable. “ The issues being alluded to in the media reports are matters before the courts and should be allowed to run their normal and legal course. The exaggerated story foreboding armageddon is far-fetched. “We call on members of the National Working Committee (NWC) and the party’s secretariat staff to resume at their offices and continue carrying out their scheduled roles and responsibilities without any fear,” he said.  APC crisis deepens as govs move against Oshiomhole Calls for Oshiomhole sack opens new cracks in APC APC NWC divided on Oshiomhole’s fate