Experts have called for drafting of the Community Development Agreement and other documents between mining industries and their host communities in local languages. This, they noted, would allow the locals have deep understanding of their rights and nip in the bud, the age – long conflicts between miners and their host communities. They spoke in Abeokuta, Ogun State, at the inauguration of Federation of Nigeria Mining Host Communities (FNMHC), Ogun State chapter. A peace and conflict resolution expert, Dr. Tope Olaifa blamed the crisis between the miners and the communities on disconnect between the parties, which, according to her, has claimed lives some parts of Nigeria. Olaifa, who is a lecturer at the Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAAB), noted that a number of locals whose environments have been polluted due to extraction activities, usually react when the miners fail to provide amenities to cushion the effects of the damages. She pointed out that it’s worrisome that a number of agreements signed between the parties were written in English thereby living the locals who are “illiterates” disadvantaged. “Many of these people (in the host communities) are illiterates and they do not really understand what’s happening. And so, they are either dis-informed or misinformed. When they look around, they see it like they are not really getting what they ought to get, they become agitated,” Olaifa submitted. The expert called for drafting of the agreement between the parties in order to enhance peaceful co -existence. On his part, the Programme Manager of Global Rights, Adeolu Kilanko blamed both the government and the communities for the conflict. He said “Who do we blame? There are faults on the side of the government and there are faults on the side of the communities. Lack of understanding on the part of the community is one major issues why their rights have been so much trampled upon. Often times, they don’t understand the mechanism through which they can seek redress when their rights have been trampled upon.” Kilanko noted that the inauguration of the FNMHC would allow the host communities to come together and form what he called social safeguard to jointly push for their rights when trampled upon by the mining industries. Gold rush: Illegal mining booms in Niger Land ownership tussle threatens growth in mining investment How mega-billions are lost to illegal mining boom