The Ondo State government has taken its crusade against the coronavirus to motor parks and other public transportation-related environments as the State Ministry of Transport yesterday rolled out guidelines for transport operators. The government told commercial bus operators that besides constant sanitising and washing of their hands, they should considerably reduce the number of passengers in their buses. According to the Special Adviser to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu on Transportation, Tobi Ogunleye, transport operators or companies were expected to sanitize their parks and garages regularly and continuously (at least, before and after each trip). The operators were also expected to provide washing-hand items, especially soap and water, at the entrance of their respective parks/garages, as well as have alcohol-based sanitizers in their vehicles for the use of drivers, conductors and passengers. The guidelines also include an order prohibiting operators from “overcrowding/overloading their vehicles at this point in time”. According to Ogunleye, “Passenger’s spacing must be fully observed. NCDC (Nigeria Centre for Disease Control) recommends that, at least, a 2- metre (5-foot) distance is required between anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness. “All buses should be at 60 per cent loading capacity and not 100 per cent. The air conditioning system in public transport should be put off. All public transport operators/companies must have a temperature reader to test each passenger before they board the bus. “All drivers, tricyclists, okada riders and conductors should always wear hand gloves and nose guards while in transit. “All passengers are also required to sanitize themselves before and after each trip. Passengers are also required to regularly wash their hands with soap and water before and after each trip. “All tricycle operators should have a maximum of three passengers, including the rider. “All okada riders should not carry more than one passenger and must comply with the existing rules of using the government prescribed crash helmet to cover their head and nose. “Operators, companies and passengers are expected to report any suspected case of COVID-19 to the Ministry of Transport. Passengers are also expected to report any operator/company that does not comply with these guidelines to the Monitoring Officer at sight or write to the Ministry, stating the vehicle registration number, park and time.”  Bulldozers demolish structures under bridges, at motor parks Abuja commuters groan, transporters smile to the bank Borno bans illegal motor parks to curb crimes