The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has resolved to throw its weight behind the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomole over what it called “the needless and avoidable crisis” in the party. Spokesman of the party, Hon. Seye Oladejo in a statement said “the dogged and passionate leadership” provided by Oshiomhole was what gave the party victory in the 2019 Presidential election. “We did not only retain the presidency but also won the majority of the seats at the National Assembly. This gave birth to the progressive leadership at the two arms of the National Assembly,” the party added. He said, “We can definitely not dismiss his monumental achievements which included breaking new grounds to the discomfort of opposition party.
As much as we will not like to say too much as the matter is already in court, recent reports that the crisis was borne out of 2023 ambitions underscore the desperation on the part of some members of the political class. “At a time like this, Lagos State APC wants to identify with the majority of the noble, decent and honourable men who have pleaded for peace , decorum and discipline to reign supreme in our party. The gladiators should take a cue from history that’s replete with men who tried to play God but failed at the crucial moment. “We dare say that no one is bigger than the party that has provided a platform and a voice for the gladiators to be relevant.
However, we regard this as testing the waters for the ultimate strategy of the enemies within to decimate the party before their final onslaught. “We’re strengthened by the resolve of men of goodwill who’re standing firm in support of one united and indivisible party.” The Lagos APC called on the gladiators to shield their swords and deploy their strength to deliver on the various assignments entrusted to them. “As much as we regard this development as a storm in the tea cup, we’re of the opinion that our party will emerge stronger at the end of the day,” he added. Buhari, APC govs wade into Senate leadership crisis Election aftermath: Oshiomhole in fresh trouble APC coalition demands Oshiomhole's resignation