…says Covid-19 could undermine stimulus packages  Despite the disruptions caused by the ravaging Coronavirus to economies forcing most of their monetary authorities to cut interest rates on bank credits to near zero per cent, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday retained the Monetary Policy Rate, its key interest rate, at 13.5 per cent and to hold all other policy parameters constant. Specifically, the apex bank,  at the end of its Monetary Policy Committee’s (MPC’s) two-day meeting ended in Abuja yesterday, left the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) unchanged at 13.5 percent; the Cash Reserve Ratio  (CRR) at 22.5 percent; Liquidity Ratio at 30 percent and the Asymmetric Corridor rate around the MPR at +200/-500 basis points. The chairman of the committee and Governor of the CBN, Godwin Emefiele, said that in spite the economic effect of the Coronavirus, members unanimously decided that it was unwise to raise or drop rates at this time. Emefiele explained that the “monetary policy stance arrived at this meeting took cognisance of the need to address the unfolding unfavourable macroeconomic developments, rein in inflation, support growth and employment through the extant interventions and recent initiatives, check capital outflows and support external reserves accretion, and dampen pressure and ensure foreign exchange market stability.” In the communiqué issued after the meeting, the committee stated that “a review of the policy options indicates relative tightness of the current monetary policy stance. The CRR was increased at the last MPC meeting. Time is required for its full effects to manifest. Increasing the MPR will be contradictory to the recent reduction of interest rate in the CBN intervention windows from 9 to 5 per cent. “Besides, an increase in MPR will be taken by the Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) as in invitation to increase lending rates and this will be most undesirable at this point in time when efforts are being made to avert a recession.” It added that “a reduction in the MPR, will not encourage the DMBs to reduce lending rates. But other strategies of the CBN are making the DMBs to reduce lending rates in furtherance of the growth objective.” This is even as the committee described “the COVID-19 pandemic as a public health crisis which will continue to undermine any monetary or fiscal stimulus unless appropriate measures are taken to trace, test, isolate and treat infected persons in order to curtail the spread, while ensuring the that migration across the country is significantly reduced.” It, therefore, called on the Federal Government to take the necessary steps to safeguard the population through close monitoring and emergency readiness measures to identify and care for infected persons in the country, including compulsory restriction of movement to curtail spread of the pandemic. The committee’s members further agreed that “the choice to hold on the monetary policy rate (MPR) also considered the subsisting Loan-to-Deposit Ratio (LDR) and the Differentiated Cash Reserves Requirement (DCRR) (DCRR) policies, which sterilize excess liquidity in the banking system, hence an increase in the MPR would be counter-productive.” The Committee noted the continued rise in domestic prices; the glut in oil supplies and low oil prices in the wake of the current global shocks; exchange rate pressure and other domestic monetary and fiscal responses to the evolving crises necessitated its decisions to retain the rates. CBN cuts lending rates to 13.5%, 2yrs after CBN cuts lending rate from 14% to 13.5% to fast track growth Interest rate may rise as CBN raises banks cash reserve ratio