FThe Consul General of the United States, Ms. Claire Pierangelo, has charged the Federal Government to motivate farmers and agribusiness investors, with a view to improving their performance and contributions to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The envoy gave the charge in Osogbo, Osun state on Tuesday during her inspection tour of the TUNS Farms Nigeria Limited, a major supplier of chicken to major eateries, including Shoprite, KFC and others. The farm is owned by the Osogbo-born agribusiness entrepreneur, Asiwaju Tunde Badmus and remains the leading privately owned investment in the state. The Consul General, who was accompanied by other top officials of the US mission in Nigeria, expressed satisfaction with the facilities at the farm as well as the products’ quality which, she noted, compared with those of international farms globally. She said: “We came here to inspect this farm to see the level of compliance with the international standard. We are happy with the facility here and we are satisfied with the products.” Pierangelo urged the federal government to give more support to farmers in the country to ensure food security. She explained that the nation’s economy would experience rapid growth when the private investors are well motivated and encouraged by government by providing enabling environment for businesses to thrive. The envoy said: “We urged the Nigerian government to give more support to the farmers in this country as the US government is doing. This is the only way to ensure food security and boost the nation’s economy. In his remarks, the Chairman of TUNS Farms, Asiwaju Tunde Badmus commended the US Mission for organising regular trainings for farmers to enable them imbibe global best practices in the agribusiness. “We are grateful to the US government for the trainings for our farmers here. The training has helped us to improve in agribusiness”, he said. He also appealed to government to assist the farmers in their agribusiness. We are shifting from producing frozen to ready-to-eat chicken – CEO of Tuns farm ‘I am setting up canned fish factory in Osun’ Investors please to strengthen agribusiness