A former governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, yesterday led loyalists of former President Olusegun Obasanjo in the southwest states to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the 2023 general elections. Oyinlola had dumped the PDP in 2014 for the All Progressives Congress (APC). In 2018, he resigned from his position as chairman of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) and dumped the APC. Oyinlola who arrived PDP Southwest Zonal Unification rally held at Mapo ancient hall along with a former deputy governor of Oyo State, Taofik Arapaja, was received by the governor of Oyo State, Engr. Seyi Makinde. Oyinlola said people currently at the helm of affairs in the country are not getting it right. He said, “The only thing they used to deceive us was restructuring, but when it’s now time to restructure, they said they don’t know anything like restructuring again. “The current administration is selfish and corrupt; most of the appointments they made came from the North, when former Minister for Finance, Kemi Adeosun was removed, a northerner succeeded her, Ayo Oke was replaced by northerner, also, Peter Dakuku was also replaced by a northerner.” He reiterated that it was time to restructure politics in the southwest for the people of the region to continue to enjoy the dividends of democracy. Governor Makinde said the defection of the former members of the party was the beginning of unity in southwest PDP. Dignitaries at the event included Governor of Bayelsa State Duoye Diri; ex-governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose; PDP Deputy National Chairman (South) Elder Yemi Akiwonmi; PDP National Vice Chairman (Southwest), Dr Eddy Olafeso; Chief Bode George, Hon Ladipupo Adebutu, Chief Mrs Olushola Obada, Alhaja Mutiat Ladoja, Chief Mrs Abosede Adedibu and all the PDP state chairmen. Meanwhile the All Progressive Congress (APC) has condemned the gathering, describing it as senseless. The party said: “At a time when countries all over the world are taking deliberate, coordinated and concerted measures to contain the global outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVlD-19), PDP sees the need to hold a senseless rally.” In a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary of the Party, Mallam Lanre Issa Onilu said the, “ PDP’s thoughtless action is shockingly at variance with the current world effort to contain this pandemic.  Ex-Osun Gov, Oyinlola dumps APC Oyinlola: Why I left PDP for APC Ex-Gov Oyinlola loyalists join APC in Osun