The Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive of National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI), Professor Mohammed Haruna, has said that Nigeria can survive the current oil prices slump in the international market if the country invests on science and technology. Prof Haruna, who made the remarks at the NASENI Day in the ongoing Science and Technology Expo in Abuja Tuesday, harped on the need for the country to develop local capacity and capability for innovations that would help its transformation to a manufacturing and export-oriented economy. He said: “The country cannot leave its economy at the mercy of fluctuating commodity prices. For example, the outbreak of the deadly Coronavirus has led to a decline in oil revenue with predictable negative impact on Government capital projects and other socio-economic activities that are funded from recurrent expenditure. “Even private sector organisations are reporting losses. Countries that have developed sound Science, Technology and Innovation system are more flexible in addressing the current world economic vicissitude. ‘’Countries that have succeeded in addressing socio-economic development challenges have one thing in common: they invest heavily in research and development. They are leaders in Science and Technology. Nigeria has no alternative route to sustainable development other than a complete change of attitude and to prioritise Science, Technology and Innovation. We commend Government resolution to prioritise Science, Technology and Innovation”, the NASENI boss added. Prof Haruna said the organisation of NASENI Day afforded the agency the opportunity to showcase the technologies, products, and services indigenously developed by it to stakeholders, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), entrepreneurs, and the public with the aim of attracting investors and investment for the commercialisation and mass production of the developed technologies, products and services. He said NASENI had been at the forefront of delivering Science and Engineering Infrastructure to ensure Nigeria’s economy is diversified and to enhance the growth of this diversified economy. According to him, the agency has been embarking on provision and use of Advanced Manufacturing Technology (AMT) facilities across the country for the production of high-quality goods and services. “NASENI is currently and consistently developing new designs and technologies to solve national problems. Many of these new designs and newly developed technologies are on display here today. I encourage you to visit our exhibition stand to acquaint yourself and discuss with us if you have interest in commercializing any one of them”, he said. Industrialization, technology and machine tools Why Nigerian keke hasn’t been commercialised – NASENI NASENI alone can bring Nigeria out of the wood – Prof Haruna