The Ondo State Commissioner for Health, Dr Wahab Adegbenro, has said that the result of the suspected case for Coronavirus in the state came out negative. This means the State is still maintaining a coronavirus free status. Dr Adegbenro, who said there was no reason for panic, called for all hand to be on deck to forestall it’s outbreak in the state. He appealed to stakeholders to maintain personal and environmental hygiene, wash hands regularly with soap and water, use hand Sanitizers, avoid being in an environment where there are more than ten people, avoid unnecessary traveling especially interstate to prevent the outbreak in the state. Earlier, as a preventative measure, the state government had met with religious leaders in the State to develop strategies to forestall the outbreak of the deadly virus and stem the tide if there is outbreak eventually. Similarly, the Sokoto State government, Saturday, dispelled rumours of a suspected case of coronavirus in the state. “We have received a report of suspected case, the case did not meet the case definition of COVID 19 in anyway,” the state Commissioner of Health, Dr Muhammad Ali Inname declared. He added: “In view of the rapid evolution of the transmission, we recommend that the general public should rely on official sources of information and avoid rumours that may create panic.” The Commissioner said the state’s ministry of health was constantly monitoring the situation across the state and assured that the general public would be updated with its findings on weekly basis. He advised residents to observe the precautionary measures of cough etiquette, hand washing, social distancing, avoiding large crowd and seeking healthcare early. According to him, the state government had designated isolation centres at Amanawa infectious disease hospital, Usmanu Danfodiyo University Teaching Hospital and the Specialists Hospital,Sokoto. Inname said the state government had banned all unnecessary gathering. Coronavirus: States beef up emergency response mechanism No confirmed case of coronavirus, suspect in isolation - Ondo govt FG confirms new coronavirus case in Nigeria