A retired Air Force Officer, Squadron Leader Aminu Bala Sokoto, has cautioned the Sokoto state government against negotiating with faceless people terrorising the state. Bala expressed concern over the recent attacks in some places of the state despite the ongoing peace deal, advising the government to use all its powers to fight the hoodlums. “The carrots and stick application can only be used in a situation where a junior party to the conflict cheated like the case of Zamfara where every Fulani man was seen or considered as a bandit or terrorist. They were being attacked for offences committed by their siblings who were wayward. “These were the reasons why most of the Fulanis in Zamfara and Katsina decided to join the bandits for self-defence and when Zamfara state government called for dialogue, they agreed and surrendered their weapons, but there were renegades among them who are now operating in Sokoto and therefore don’t require carrots treatment.” Bala further maintained that the security situations in Sokoto and Zamfara states are not the same. “While the latter is grappling with bandit attacks and internally motivated conflicts, the former  seems to be battling with only bandits as there is no reported cases of harassment, intimidation and racial killings against the Fulanis in the state. “Hence, there is no reason whatsoever for Sokoto government to seek dialogue with such terrorists because nobody offended them.” The security situation in the state, he said, required very serious and urgent measures to be curtailed. He called on the state government to galvanize the support and participation of all the citizens, including the security agencies in order to come out with a blueprint on how best to tackle the problem. It would be recalled that the state Commissioner for Careers and Security Matters, Colonel Garba Moyi (rtd) said they had identified and negotiated with 17 gangs of armed bandits, leading to the recovery of over 100 assorted weapons.  Zamfara bandits to disarm this week, says Police boss Why we are negotiating with bandits – Sokoto govt Fresh attacks raise fears of renewed killings in Zamfara