Unity Bank Plc has advocated more investment in the creative industry to drive its contribution to the Nigerian economy. The Head, Personal and SMEs, Unity Bank Plc, Mr. Opeyemi Ojesina, made the call in Lagos while speaking at a panel to explore financing options for the music industry at the just concluded Social Media Week. The session was hosted by Beat FM in partnership with Unity Bank Plc with the theme: “Financing the Music”. Speaking on the impediments to flow of credits and investment into the industry, Ojesina explained that the music industry, with the involvement of stakeholders in financial services sector, needed a deliberate action plan to boost investment that would grow opportunities for entrepreneurs in the sector. He said, “To attract the required funding in the music industry, all the stakeholders involved must be deliberate about it. But most importantly, the people in the industry must begin to understand the business of their craft and build the necessary structure that would enable financial institutions to make an informed investment decision.” Also speaking, the Head of Digital, Events and Sponsorships of Unity Bank Plc, Bashir Salami, reiterated that the bank had been exploring several financing strategies to support musicians and grow the industry. Salami added that, “Before the CBN came out with the Creative Funding Initiative (CFI), the bank had supported a number of artistes to promote initiatives and projects that resonates with corporate objectives of the bank.” He cited the endorsement deal with Adekunle Gold in 2018 as the most significant project to enhance the bank’s contribution to the growth of the Nigerian music industry. Nigeria’s music industry has been sustaining growth over the past decade, growing by nine per cent in 2016 to hit $39m, and is projected  to grow by 13.4 per cent by 2021, with an estimated worth of about $73m. Unity Bank appoints Somefun as new MD/CEO Housing and Nigeria’s evolving mortgage industry Now that 8 bank chiefs have gone, what next?