The outbreak of the dreaded coronavirus is currently taking its toll on activities around the nation’s seaports as the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) yesterday said it has shut down its national secretariat in Lagos in compliance with the Federal Government’s “stay at home” order. A statement signed by ANLCA President, Hon Tony Nwabunike, on Tuesday, indicated that the association educated its members on necessary precautions in order not to contract the dreaded plague, even as he expressed optimism that the virus would be defeated soon. Nwabunike stated that with the Federal Government shutting down the nation’s borders, the schools, key agencies and other apparatus, it is apparent that activities at the port will also be scaled down to an all-time low. “Your National President and entire NECOM members do care about you and your entire family members. All our professional colleagues are very important and dear to us. Let’s show love to ourselves by staying safe and coming out victorious. “Consequently, the National Secretariat will by 12 noon today the 24/03/2020 be shut down till further notice. Please, stay at home with your families. Avoid gatherings of any sort. “It is my prayers that the Almighty Father will spare us and the lives of our family members” he added. In an earlier release,  the immediate past National President of NAGAFF,  Dr. Eugene Nweke warned that the federal government should not risk the life of Nigerian freight forwarders, all in their bid to generate revenue. Eugene commended the NAGAFF headquarters for taking the bold initiative to direct its members to maintain social distancing by staying off work for 14 days. He expressed shock at the rate at which freight forwarders still troop out in large numbers to the port, despite warnings by the federal government for Nigerians to maintain social distancing in order to avoid contracting Corona Virus. He argued that the CRFFN  as an agency of the government is expected to show leadership in this direction, adding that the health and wellness interest of the Freight Forwarders must be paramount. He said “A Forwarder can hardly seat at home, as he cannot transact effectively online, how much more delivering his container online, because the system is skewed against e-commerce” ANLCA to resist implementation of 35% levy on used cars Court restrains ANLCA from executing fresh NEC resolution Controversy trails demand for  Dikko’s  removal