Oil prices lost more than $1 a barrel on Thursday as restrictions on travel worldwide slashed fuel demand, with U.S. crude futures plunging more than 6% after the United States scrapped plans to buy domestic oil for its emergency reserves. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude CLc1 futures dropped $1.60, or 6.5%, to $22.89 a barrel by 1:15 p.m. EDT (1715 GMT). Brent crude LCOc1 futures fell $1.06 to $26.33, or 3.9%, a barrel. Both contracts are down about 60% this year. The head of the International Energy Agency  (IEA) said global oil demand could drop as much as 20 million barrels per day or 20% of total demand as 3 billion people are currently in a lockdown because of the coronavirus outbreak. A partner at Again Capital in New York, John Kilduff, said “concerns around the demand outlook continue to worsen by the day. It’s just incessant downward pressure on this complex.” U.S. futures were notably weaker than international benchmark Brent crude. The U.S. Department of Energy scrapped a plan to purchase domestic crude oil for its Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) after funding was not included in the broader stimulus package. Director of futures Mizuho in New York, Bob Yawger said:  “The SPR element is totally a domestic issue and it has been percolating in the market for a couple weeks. “There was a certain assumption that it was going to happen so you had that backstop, to a certain degree, that didn’t exist for the international benchmark”, he added The U.S. Senate unanimously passed the $2 trillion bill aimed at helping struggling workers and industries hurt by the impact of the coronavirus epidemic, and sent the legislation to the House of Representatives. The House is expected to vote on Friday. But with demand disappearing and output rising, the outlook for oil is bleak. The weakening demand is leading oil refineries from Texas to Thailand to reduce operating rates. Crude prices fall towards $40 on global glut Oil falls 2% as concern over demand bites Oil prices slip as U.S. crude output nears 12 million bpd