Some residents of Awe Local Government area of Nasarawa state, have appealed to the deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II not to leave Awe community, assuring him of their cooperation. They described the emirs presence as a blessing, saying it has brought the community to limelight. They said Sanusi’s presence in the community has boosted its security and popularity. A cross-section of those interviewed by the News Agency of Nigeria, on Thursday in Awe, headquarters of Awe Local Government Area, said that they were happy to host Sanusi. READ: Sanusi: Police arrest ‘fake soldier’ in Awe One of them, Hajiya Fatima Kande, said the community would do everything to make Sanusi’s stay memorable. Kande said members of the community would appreciate Sanusi’s permanent stay with them. “The people of Awe are peace-loving people and we like receiving visitors from every part of Nigeria. We are hospitable people. “We will do everything possible within our power to make the deposed emir’s stay memorable. We hope that one day he would decide to stay with us on his own forever,” Kande said. A resident, Malam Dauda Muhammad-Awa, said that although he was initially shocked by the sad news of the emir’s removal, he considered himself lucky living in the same community with him. The Kano State government had on Monday, March 9, dethroned Emir Sanusi II over alleged   “total disrespect to lawful instructions from the office of the state governor and other lawful authorities, including his persistent refusal to attend official meetings and programmes organised by the government without any lawful justification which amount to total insubordination.” READ: Sanusi’s journey from Kano to Awe The 14th emir of Kano was hours after his removal banished to Nasarawa State, a development that elicited outcry from different quarters. He was subsequently replaced by Aminu Ado Bayero, the son of the 13th emir of Kano. The deposed emir now lives in Awe town of Nasarawa State amid tight security by federal forces including the police and operatives of DSS. Pressure mounts on govt to free Sanusi Family visits Sanusi in Awe New Kano Emir weeps