Kogi state governor, Yahaya Bello, has appointed Senior Special Assistants on security matters for each of the 21 local government areas of the state. Announcing the appointment on Thursday in Lokoja, he charged them to work assiduously with security operatives and directors of local government areas toward riding the state of criminals. Governor Bello, who acknowledged that criminal elements had held sway in the state, warned them to relocate or face the full wrath of the law. “If you are a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and you pose security threat to the state, I will deal with you. No room for criminals in Kogi state, you better conduct yourself well or else I will ask the law enforcement agents to pick you up and deal with you. “My administration wants to bring crime to zero level. I will not open my eyes and allow some criminal elements torment the good people of the state. That is why I invited the Kogi state Commissioner of Police to witness this occasion. He is representing the Inspector General of Police,” he said. The governor said the Senior Special Assistants must make sure they deal with all security issues in their various local government areas adding that they are expected to report to the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs. Governor Bello equally warned those disturbing his phone line for appointments to quit, saying that any appointment he makes will always be on merit and past antecedents. The Senior Special Assistants appointed today are: Hon. Moses Sunday, Mopa-Amuro; Hon. Taofiq Isah, Ijumu; Wokili Sule, Yagba East; Hon. Ariyo Adebayo Kemuna and Kabba/Bunu local government areas. Others are Hon. Goke Oparison, Ogori Magongo; Joseph Omuya Salami, Adavi; Prince Aliyu Aka’aba, Ajaokuta; Hon. Ibrahim Abaku, Ankpa; Hon. Muhammed Muktar Shaibu, Bassa; Hon. Taibu Siaka, Dekina; Hon. Williams Ekokojo, Ibaji and Hon. Abu Odoma, Idah. They also include Hon. Onoja James Omachulu, Igalamela/Odolu; Hon. Indah Abdulkareem, Kogi; Hon. Muhammed Dansabe, Lokoja; Hon. Ibrahim Adamu, Ofu; Hon. Abdulraheem Ohiare, Okehi; Hon. Abdulrasaq Yusuf, Okene; Hon. Adejo Nechodamus, Olamaboro and Hon. Ibrahim Yakubu Abo, Omala. Inside Kogi power struggle: How Bello, Dino fell out The other side of Yahaya Bello as governor of Kogi State Achuba kicks as Onoja takes oath today as Bello’s deputy