Customers of First City Monument Bank (FCMB) are set to enjoy another phase of reward and financial empowerment as the bank rolls out Season 7 of its promotion package tagged “FCMB Millionaire Promo”. The Season 7 follows the huge success recorded and the positive impact of previous editions of the promo since it commenced in 2013. The FCMB Millionaire Promo Season 7 which will run from March to October, 2020, will produce another set of 16 lucky customers of the bank as millionaires through winning of cash ranging from N1m to N2m. In addition, 152 LED televisions, 152 power generating sets, 912 smart phones and 760 decoders would be won. The winners will emerge through electronic selection of all qualified customers at bi-monthly zonal and regional draws to be held in May, July, September and November, 2020. The promo is designed to provide extra empowerment, reward and value for customers of the bank, while encouraging financial inclusion and savings culture. It is targeted at all segments of the society, especially existing and potential savings account customers of the bank. This, however, excludes salary and domiciliary account holders. To participate in the promo, existing or new customers of the bank are to increase their respective balances by N10,000.00 in any of the eligible FCMB savings accounts and maintain it for 30 days to qualify for the bi-monthly zonal and regional electronic selection of winners where the star prize of N1m and other fantastic prizes would be won. Multiple savings of N10,000 will increase the probability of winning. To qualify for the grand finale draws in November, 2020, where four customers will win N2m each, existing and new customers are to increase their balances with at least N50,000 and maintain it for 30 days. Multiple savings of N50,000 will also increase the chances of winning. Speaking on the promo, the Executive Director, Retail Banking of FCMB, Mr. Olu Akanmu, said, “The FCMB millionaire promo is unique. The promotion is decentralised to the 19 zones of the bank nationwide, increasing the spread of wins across several states in Nigeria. We reward the aspiration of our customers to save and fulfil their dreams.” FCMB is a member of FCMB Group Plc, which is one of the leading financial services institutions in the country, with subsidiaries that are market leaders in their segments Customers win big in FCMB Millionaire promo Season 4 FCMB produces more millionaires FCMB excites more customers with cash, gifts at ‘’Millionaire Promo Season 6’’ 3rd draws