Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, at the weekend said his administration would continue to maintain cordial relationship with the Nigerian Army to keep the state safe and secure saying the military played a role in saving his life at a point in time. Speaking at a reception organised in his honour by the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 2 Division, Nigerian Army, Major General Anthony Bamidele Omozoje, at the Tiger’s Den, Adekunle Fajuyi Cantonment, Odogbo, Ibadan, he said, “I have been saved twice from imminent death by the officers of this Division. The first experience was in 2007 when I was contesting to go to the Senate. On the day of election, my house was invaded by mobile policemen but I was rescued by the officers and was taken to Mokola Barracks where I stayed throughout the election. I did not even vote on the day of election, but I was happy that I came back unhurt due to the efforts of the officers of this Division. “Also, in 2015 when I was contesting to be the governor of this state, I was going to campaign in front of the family house of my opponent. Violence erupted but the officers of this division took charge and I was rescued unhurt.” A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, further indicated that Governor Makinde thanked the military for its dedication to the peace and security of Oyo State, and assured that the new security architecture in the state would pave the way for ‘Operation Burst’ to cover all the other zones within the state. “I look forward to us working closely together, especially Operation Burst. We are trying to cover the whole of Oyo State. We still have quite a bit to do to entrench the new security architecture and, of course, we want the handshake all the way to Oke-Ogun, Ogbomoso, Ibarapa and other axes too,” he said. Presidential polls: How cop escaped beheading by Bayelsa mob Understanding Nigerian Army’s role in defending Nigeria’s sovereignty Gov Dickson accuses GOC 6th div of compromising security in Bayelsa poll