Due to the striking resemblance with his late father, the new Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero’s appointment as the 15th emir did not meet any resentment in Kano as the people had wished that he succeeded his father when the latter was alive. It was therefore a huge relief to the people against the shock of the news of the ouster of the former emir, Muhammadu Sanusi II. On Monday, March 9, 2020, the governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, approved Bayero’s appointment as the 15th emir of Kano. This followed his selection by the Kano kingmakers after the dethronement of Emir Muhammadu Sanusi II earlier in the morning of that day. The appointment was announced by the Secretary to the state government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji. Born in 1961, the new emir is the second child of the late emir, Ado Bayero, the 13th emir in the Fulani dynasty of Kano. He attended Kofar Kudu Primary School and Government College, Birnin Kudu. He then attended Bayero University Kano where he studied Mass Communication and later went to Flying College, Oakland, California, USA. He did his compulsory youth service at the NTA Makurdi in Benue State. His highness served as a Public Relations officer at Kabo Air and later became a flight engineer. He was appointed Dan Majen Kano and District Head of Dala in 1990 by his late father and promoted to Dan Buram in the same year. Emir Aminu was appointed Turakin Kano in 1992 and Sarkin Dawakin Tsakargida in 2000. He was promoted to Wamban Kano in 2014 by the deposed emir, Muhammadu Sanusi, following the promotion of the then Wamban Kano, Abbas Sanusito, to the rank of Galadima. He was appointed the first emir of Bichi following the creation of four additional emirates in the state by Governor Ganduje in 2019. Aminu Ado Bayero made his first public appearance on Tuesday, a day after his appointment, when he visited his father’s grave at the Gidan Nasarawa palace using the official convoy of the Kano Emirate Council. He left his Mandawari residence in Kano metropolis, boarding the emir’s official Rolls Royce car in a long motorcade. The motorcade went straight to the Nasarawa resident where he visited the grave of his father, late Ado Bayero, and prayed for him and his great grand fathers who were buried there. The new monarch then sat briefly in the house where the four Kano king makers, the Madakin Kano, Alhaji Yusuf Nabahani; Sakin Ban Kano, Alhaji Mukhtar Adnan; Makaman Kano, Abdullahi Sarki Ibrahim and Sarkin Dawaki Maituta, Alhaji Bello Tuta as well as other traditional title holders and well-wishers paid him homage. The emir’s convoy then proceeded to Gandun Albasa, where he paid homage to his mother, popularly called Mama, who automatically took the title of the King Mother in Kano, “Mai Babban Daki”. The emir greeted his mother and sought her blessings and prayers for his new role. With the emir was a mammoth crowd accompanying him all the way back to his Mandawari residence where many lined up along the routes to have a glimpse and pay homage to him and wish him well as he ascended the throne of his forefathers. On Wednesday, March 11, 2020, the new emir received his appointment letter from the Kano State governor at Coronation Hall, Government House Kano, alongside his brother, Alhaji Nasiru Ado Bayero, who was appointed the new emir of Bichi. During the presentation, other emirs of Rano and Karaye were in attendance, while the emir of Gaya sent a representative. Igbo and Yoruba leaders along with leaders of other ethnic groups were also there to show their support and solidarity to the new emirs. In his speech, the governor said; “I am delighted because Kano people are happy. It is a celebration, it is celebration, it is celebration and it is happiness, it is happiness and it is happiness all over Kano State, and even beyond. “Here we are when two of the sons of our revered late emir, Alhaji Ado Bayero, have become first class emirs, born by the same mother and the same father. This is the first time such a thing is happening in the history of the state.” In his acceptance speech, the new emir assured of his total support, loyalty and solidarity to the administration of Governor Ganduje, adding that he would also support the state’s policies on free and compulsory primary and secondary education, among others. He said; “As Muslims, we all believe in destiny, it is only Allah who ordains what will happen all the time, Allah doesn’t make mistake in all He does. All things happen at a stipulated time destined by Him alone.” Bayero added; “We must always remember our late father, the late emir who used to direct us to always be obedient to leaders and be just to people. He was frequently telling us to always be God-fearing. Your Excellency, we will do everything possible to help in developing our dear state and the country in general.” The emir then proceeded to the palace where a special entrance was made for him through the thick palace wall as the tradition entails that new emirs of Kano doesn’t go into the palace through the main gate on their first day of entry. He then settled on the throne and began to receive dignitaries who come from far and near to felicitate with him and show their solidarity, among whom was General Aliyu Gusau (Rtd). On Friday, March 13, a special prayer session was organized for the emir in the morning in with the deputy governor, Dr. Nasir Yusuf Gawuna, in attendance. Later in the day, he observed his first Jum’at prayer with Governor Ganduje at the Kano Central Mosque, as thousands of worshipers thronged the mosque to witness the historic moment and pray for the emir. Among his official functions, the emir visited Gidan Makama Secondary School and attended the combined convocation ceremony of the Kano State College of Islamic and Legal studies, which held on Saturday.  Ciroman Kano: The Road Not Taken by Sanusi Bayero Who is Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, the new Emir of Kano? New Kano Emir, Bayero may receive staff of office today