Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, yesterday inaugurated a 38-member fund raising committee to assist the poor and the needy as the coronavirus spreads, saying the current health epidemic could be likened to World War III. The governor said, “In addition to the measures already taken by the state government to prevent the spread of the disease in the state, we considered it necessary to find ways to lessen the effect of the lockdown especially on the poor and the downtrodden, hence the need for the fundraising.” He also disclosed that Alhaji Aliko Dangote has promised to provide 600 beds to be used at the Sani Abacha Stadium, which has been converted to a temporary isolation centre. He then called on residents of the state to observe fasting today and fervently pray for the intervention of Allah against the dreaded COVID-19 virus. Ganduje also urged all retired health workers in the state to come forward and register as volunteers with the state ministry of health in the fight against the disease. The committee has a mandate of soliciting for funds and distributing same to the needy in the state with a view to cushioning the effect of the lockdown. The committee has seven terms of reference, which include identifying organisations, groups and individuals to seek for donations; Identifying materials needed; identifying those most in need of such assistance. Also mapping out strategies for the distribution of the materials; distribution of the materials, as well as any other thing, deemed appropriate by the committee that would facilitate their assignment. The committee has Professor Muhammad Yahuza Bello, Vice-Chancellor of Bayero University, Kano as chairman, and Alhaji Tajuddeen Aminu Dantata as co-chair. Other members include Senator Barau Jibril; Hon. Alhassan Ado Doguwa; Speaker, Kano State House of Assembly; representative of Emir of Kano, Madakin Kano, Yusuf Nabahani; Kano state CAN Chairman; Eze Ndigbo, Kano and Oba of Yoruba among others. Before testing positive for COVID-19, Kyari mingled with govs, ministers, others Healthcare is my priority - Ganduje Ganduje and Kano modernization