The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has said it is tracking some ponzi schemes and will soon close them and prosecute their promoters. SEC maintained that those ‘money doubling’ outfits (that illegal fund managers) remain illegal and must be clamped down. The acting Director General of the SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, who reiterated the commission’s commitment to clamp down on illegal fund operators at an event in Abuja, said the enforcement department of the Commission has intensified efforts to close these ponzi schemes and prosecute the promoters. Represented by the Head, office of the Chief Economist, Mr. Okechukwu Umeano, at the forum, clarified further: “Also, the Commission continues to create awareness through various media to educate investors about these schemes and urge people to avoid putting money into them. It is an ill wind that blows no one any good. “The SEC has introduced a lot of innovative processes to clean up the market and make it easier and safer for investors. Some of these measures and processes include the E-Dividend and Direct Cash Settlement and regularisation of multiple accounts among others” she said. According to her, “other activities of the SEC such as Risk Based Supervision, encouraging automation, strengthening self-regulatory organisations (SROs) are all geared towards a better market and in turn improved investor confidence”. The investment expert said the commission remains committed to its core mandate of protecting investors and assures the general public that it shall perform this function in line with extant securities legislation. “We advise prospective investors to cross check properly before patronising any fund manager. Information about registered entities and investment schemes approved by the Commission can be found on the Commissions website or at any of the Commission’s offices” she stated. The acting DG expressed the optimism that the market will have a positive year, and thanked the Central Bank of Nigeria for its actions in pushing down sovereign yields and helping funds flow to the equities market thereby reducing the crowding out of corporate from the debt market. “Their actions in the area of foreign exchange management, and how they respond to rising inflation will play a huge role in determining market performance” she added. SEC: Tightening the noose on ‘Ponzi’ schemes SEC to clamp down on illegal fund promoters Loom: SEC warns Nigerians against trending ponzi scheme