There are strong indications that the congestion now being experienced at the Lagos ports may be worsened by the recent ban on the evacuation of containers by barges, Daily Trust investigations have indicated. For instance, many port stakeholders are already condemning the customs’ boss action, claiming that it will worsen the present congestion situation in Nigeria ports. The Comptroller General of the Nigeria Customs Service, Col. Hameed Ali had ordered the ban on the use of barges to evacuate containers and other cargoes from the seaports. Ali, in a circular to officers, cited gross illegalities on the part of barge operators who he claimed had been diverting cargoes away from approved destination for the policy directive. The directives has also vitiated efforts by the Managing Director of National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Dr. George Moghalu who, only on Friday, said that bulk cargoes and containers are now to be moved through the waterways on barges. Similarly, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) in its bid to decongest the ports had issued licences to those who are interested to go into barge operations. NPA’s Managing Director, Hadiza Bala Usman, told Daily Trust exclusively that over 30 operators had been licensed Since the licences were issued PTML command of the Customs located at the Tincan Island port complex had been moving cargoes from Tincan Island to its Mile 2 terminal through barges. But all of these will now be in the past as the Customs Comptroller General has banned barges movement from the ports with immediate effect. The circular signed by Deputy Comptroller General, Austin Chidi (DIG, Enforcement, Inspection and Investigation) dated March 12, 2020 titled “Use of Barges for Evacuation of Containers into and out of the Ports” addressed to all DCGs, ACGs, Area Controllers and Units heads stated: “The CGC is in receipt of intelligence that the use of barges to evacuate containers in and out of our ports is being abused to the extent that containers are being diverted to illegal warehouses. “Consequently, I am directed to inform you that the use of barges to evacuate containers should stop with immediate effect. This is for immediate compliance please”  What we are doing to decongest the ports, expand ports operations -NPA MD ‘FG, importers lose revenue for not moving cargoes by rail, water’ 48-hour clearance at ports: Mirage or reality?