In this interview the Managing Director of the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Chief George Moghalu, who was on a tour of Lagos recently, says one of his immediate priorities is to recover all debts owed the agency and also open up new business opportunities on the nation’s internal waterways.  What are some of the challenges you have observed that will pose difficulty to you as the CEO of NIWA? The fact is that challenges are challenges and we have to look at them from the general aspect. First of all, the basic fundamental is that there is lack of awareness. This is one major issue I have found out. I have been here barely four months and have realised that a lot of people don’t know about NIWA. I see this as a challenge that has to be addressed. Secondly, unlike in the past, the resources available to government is not much anymore, so it require us to think out of the box to see what we can do to generate the needed resources internally to balance whatever we are going to get from the national purse. With that we can be able to carry out responsibilities of the authority. So, funding is also a major challenge. I will work to make the waterways attractive, to explore the tourism potentials, business potentials and many more. Thirdly, the security of our waterways is also a challenge. We are working closely with the marine police and navy to address it. However, truth be told, these challenges are surmountable, and we are focused to solving them. Another area is that of staff training; building and developing manpower. This is a great challenge because you have to build them, you have to develop them to being reliable processionals for them to understand your vision and core mandate, and then see issues from your own perspective. Making the workforce see from your own mirror creates the likelihood of getting to your own destination with ease because there will be harmony of vision.  What are the major targets of NIWA in 2020? First of all, we want to reposition NIWA. In 2020 we are looking at a NIWA with a more committed staff who understand their mandate. We want to massively build on our manpower, and to challenge them. We are also looking at a NIWA that has very improved services. We will pursue debt recovery. Those who owe us must pay. Those who want our services must pay, and all these things must be properly documented so that we can have a high degree of accountability and transparency.  How much is NIWA being owed? We are working on it. There are cases of underpayment and there are cases of people who don’t want to pay even when they are using our right of way; some even refuse to pay their passage fees. So we want to get this things documented to get them to pay. They must pay because there are tariffs clearly spelt out for services. So, we need to get these things properly documented so that we can go after them to pay. We will work to make NIWA contribute to our national economy, improve on our GDP and boost government revenue in the long-term.  Is NIWA thinking of any programme that will help youths in coastal communities? First of all, if we develop our waterways, businesses will grow. Example, the other day when I visited Oguta River Port, I was shocked when I was being taken around by the crown prince. We found out that all the land across the area had been bought up by private investors. Some bought their own to build big farms, some bought to build cargo sheds, some to build houses, some even hotels. I met an investor who said he wanted to build a hotel there, but when the river port was stopped, he had to stop because there was no point tying his investment there when he knew that the river port was not there NIWA has effect on the economy of coastal areas as anywhere ferries stop, you will see new towns developing, new businesses springing up, and it provides opportunities for indigenes and youths to get involved. The issue of unemployment in this country is such that it requires everybody. It is not only about the federal, state or local governments, it includes the agencies and the private sector as government cannot provide all with employment. What government needs to do is to create an environment for the private sector to grow so that it can create employment. At the same time, we have to look at our educational curriculum so that we can produce youths that are employable; not youths who have certificates, but youths who can defend their certificates.  How are our internal ports fairing? Immediately after my appointment, I visited the Baro Port. That was my first visit and I went by waterways so that I could see the state of the channels. I have also gone to the Onitsha Port. I went round seeing all the ancillary services that will enhance businesses in the area. I have also gone to the Oguta Port. The Baro Port has been completed. The Onitsha Port is complete, the Oguta Port is about 58 per cent completed. Talking about readiness to use the ports, the Onitsha Port is undergoing a concession. If not for the challenge they had as regards to the concession process and petition by some persons who participated in the process, that caused us to go to the National Assembly and ICRC taking over to resolve the issues, the concession process for Onitsha Port would have been completed by now. The Baro Port is completed. It’s a case of lack of funding or provision in the budget to address the issue, but I am determined to bring it back, because I need to know what the situation is on ground before I make a case, just like I am going to other river ports and all our area offices in about 25 states. As I go to areas where we have river ports, I also visit our offices and look at what our issues and challenges are with a view to finding solutions. I have also visited the Lokoja River Port which is under construction. The stages where these projects are, are such that we cannot afford to abandon them because government has made a lot of investment in them already. The option left for us now is to complete them and possibly concession them and put them into use, otherwise they will remain abandoned and resources already invested will be wasted, and I don’t think that’s a wise decision to take. That’s where we are, and efforts are being made to complete and put them into use.  What is NIWA doing to utilise this natural transport infrastructure? Nigeria is endowed with a wide maritime space. We are blessed with over 10,000 km of waterways that link almost 28 states. Over 3,000km of 10,000km is navigable all year round. Our desire and determination is to open up the lakes to make sure that these channels are open all year round. We are working to have navigational aids and making sure that these channels are free. We are addressing the issue of insecurity which the Ministry of Transport is determined to fight. The Nigerian Navy (NN) and the marine police are also determined to fight insecurity on the waterways. Like the procurement process that we are running now, we are clearing the waterways, and this are some of the hindrances we have identified and we are looking to get them sorted out. We want to make sure that we open up our waterways to make them free for cargo and passenger movements. In the 60’s and early 70’s, through Sapele and Lagos, we had constant movement, we also had tourism potentials; and this are the realities facing us, and NIWA is determined to bring back the good old days. If our waterways are free flowing, they have a lot of impact to make on our transport system and they will affect us positively. The lifespan of our roads will be longer. It will reduce the pressure on our roads. We are determined to see that we bring back the good old days of safe and reliable water transportation. Recently, I held a meeting with a company on this issue, the discussions have gone very far, very soon we are going to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), and we will start Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) on water transportation.  With these laudable programmes, how much employment will you create? We can achieve 5,000 employments if we succeed with the plans. We can generate even more. We are building fuel economy ferryboat locally –Enenmoh Experts suggest way out on waterways After 9 years, Lokoja inland port still a mirage