Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers have abducted the son and daughter of the presiding Pastor of the Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Pastor Komolafe Amos, in Anguwar Wadata in Abaji, opposite the newly established Government Science and Technical College (GSTC), Abuja. The two abducted victims are: Yemi Komolafe and Samuel Komolafe. Our reporter learnt that a man, Haruna and his wife, Mrs Faith Haruna, who are neighbours of the pastor, were also abducted by the gunmen. The Pastor, while speaking with Daily Trust at his residence in the area on Sunday, said the incident happened around 12:04am on Friday when the gunmen invaded the area. He said he was inside his room sleeping with his family when the gunmen in their large numbers, carrying sophisticated weapons, came and surrounded his house. He said that upon hearing their footsteps, he stood up from his bed and sighted them through the window, saying one of the gunmen asked him to open the door. “As he asked me to open the door, I asked them: “why should I open the door?” And before I knew what was happening, they had already taken positions, as some of them now forced my door open and whisked away my son and daughter,” he said. He said the gunmen rained several bullets on his house before they later proceeded to his neighbour’s apartment and abducted Haruna and his wife, after the gunmen vandalized one of the windows’ burglaries in their apartment to gain entry. He noted that he has been able to establish contact with the gunmen, saying they are demanding for N10million ransom before his daughter and son will be set free, just as, he said, the gunmen made away with six mobile phones which belonged to his family. “They called me through my daughter’s phone and they are demanding for N10million; and I told them that I have N100,000 but they quickly switched off the phone,” he said. Daily Trust learnt that the FCT Police Commissioner, Bala Ciroma, led by Abaji Divisional Police Officer (DPO), CSP Umar Musa, visited the houses attacked by the suspected gunmen last Friday. When contacted for official comment, the spokesman of the FCT police command, DSP Anjuguri Manza, neither pick calls put across to his mobile line nor reply text message sent to him as at the time of filing this report. Gunmen kidnap student, mother in Abaji Gunmen kidnap woman, daughter in Abuja months after husband is freed Gunmen abduct Abaji vice chair, 2 others