In this interview, the general manager, Owerri Capital Development Authority (OCDA), Innocent Ikpamezie, an engineer, said only the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was surprised at the emergence of Hope Uzodinma as governor. The court judgement that declared your principal, Governor Hope Uzodinma as the duly elected governor of Imo State was greeted with mixed reaction. How did you view this? Such reaction is expected from the camp of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). You know it was very obvious that they wanted to hold onto power by whatever means. However, the greater Imolites who are the main voters saw the judgement that restored the mandate of Senator Hope Uzodimma coming. Former Governor Emeka Ihedioha asked the Supreme Court for a review of the judgement, which again went in favour of Governor Uzodinma. Was there panic in your camp during that period? Our camp, from the onset, had the conviction that the declaration of Emeka Ihedioha as winner was a clear case of a stolen mandate. So, the application for review, apart from being an aberration, was also a deliberate ploy to ridicule the apex court. However, as we all know, these are erudite jurists you cannot possibly be perturbed with such frivolous application. That was why the application didn’t see the light of the day. Although The Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka had prophesied about Uzodinma’s assumption of office as governor, what would have been your hope without Mbaka’s prophecy? I am a staunch Catholic and a knight of St. John International. I believe in prophesies, especially when such is coming from a highly respected priest like Fr. Ejike Mbaka. Apart from the issue of prophesy, I was very much confident that Senator Uzodimma would win the election as he did, even though his mandate was temporarily delayed. If you had followed the happenings from the congresses, even in other political parties, there was no such jubilation in the state like when the governor was declared as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The people at that point knew he was the only messiah and candidate that had such charisma and experience to help realise the vision and expectations of Imolites, having been in denial of the basic dividends of democracy for more than eight years. How would you describe the current political mood in Imo State? Imolites have already keyed into a non-vindictive, but shared prosperity government led by Senator Hope Uzodimma, which he anchored on the three big Rs: Recovery, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation. If you have been in Imo State since January 14, 2020 when the Supreme Court judgement was delivered, you will invariably agree with me that the political environment we have in the state now is that of total acceptance of a governor who has come to work, who has a well-defined vision and mission for Imolites. A governor who is a goal-getter and has priority for high quality standards, respect for rule of law and dignity of Imolites. We now have a very peaceful political environment that will definitely give way to rapid development, total overhaul and revamping of the long years of decayed infrastructure in the state. What is Governor Uzodinma doing to support all Imo indigenes, home and abroad, beyond promises? Senator Uzodimma is making a vigorous and determined attempt to create a suitable, hospitable and secure environment in Imo State. As we can all see, the governor is a man of peace and a lot of reconciliations are going on within and outside the party. The governor, upon taking oath of office, had extended the olive branch to his fellow contestants in the governorship race to join him to recover, rehabilitate and reconstruct Imo State so as to represent the vision of the patriots like Sam Mbakwe, who was selfless and put Imo State first in all his endeavours. If you also look at the pattern of appointments made so far by the governor, apart from the fact that he has selected men and women of proven integrity, you would agree with me that the appointment cuts across the divides without any form of nepotism or discrimination. The governor is the friend of Imolites, dating back to the time he ventured into politics, even at the National Assembly, where he had made huge indelible marks. He had always carried all Imolites along in his exploits. I am, therefore, very convinced that he has the maximum support of the majority of Imolites as he hurriedly settles down with his people-oriented programmes. The opposition insists the governor won’t do well, what is your take on the government’s ability to deliver on its mandate? Why are they only speaking from a political point of view? It is because they are yet to align with the fact that their principal had lost the battle and their strongest rival emerged victorious at the apex court? However, we are not perturbed by these political assertions and permutations based on grief and hatred. They are baseless and cannot hold water. Senator Hope Uzodimma’s style of leadership is very exceptional and cannot be found anywhere. If you take your time to go through his appointments, you would agree with me that he has appointed young, vibrant professionals and technocrats who have the technical know-how in their respective areas of jurisdiction. Senator Uzodinma is toeing the right path. He is already doing well and will continue to do well. And I have no doubt that he will exceed the expectations of Imolites. Your appointment as the general manager of the OCDA also generated concerns, particularly in the media, what do you say to this? It is only a fruitful tree that people throw stones and sticks at. Ever since I was appointed the general manager of the OCDA, some political enemies have been aggrieved. But what can I say? Power belongs to God. He directs and orders my steps. It has pleased him and my boss that I serve in this capacity at this time. And I will make the best of it. We have passed the stage of gossip and side talk. All political gimmicks have come and gone with the elections. Whatever you may have seen on the media was a mere distraction and cannot deter me from doing my job. Only the almighty God and the court of law stand to determine the actions and inactions of any human being. Supreme Court stands down for judgement in Imo review Imo lawmakers endorse Supreme Court's judgement, say 'Ihedioha didn't win poll' S/Court: CSOs, PDP pray for favourable verdict