The Federal High Court sitting in Ado Ekiti has warned the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, against taking actions that could be subjudice on the appointment of Senator Abiola Ajimobi as the National Deputy Chairman (South) of the party. Ajimobi attended the National Working Committee (NWC) meeting of the party last week. Also, he had been presented to President Muhammadu Buhari by the party’s National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. The court said it would be contemptuous for anyone to be appointed into the position by APC National Working Committee (NWC) until the case filed by an aspirant, Mr Michael Akinleye, contesting Ajimobi’s proposed nomination, is determined. The suit, with registration number FHC/AD/CS/8/2020, was filed against the NWC to halt Ajimobi’s appointment on the premise that the position had been micro-zoned to Ekiti. Joined in the suit are APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole (1st respondent), National Working Committee (2nd), National Vice Chairman, South West (3rd), APC South-West Zonal Caucus (4th), Ekiti State Chairman of APC (5th), Ekiti State Caucus of APC (6th), All Progressives Congress (7th) and Senator Abiola Ajimobi (8th). The seat became vacant following the appointment of Otunba Niyi Adebayo as minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, which informed the stand of Ekiti APC that Senator Gbenga Aluko should be allowed to fill the vacancy in respect of the party’s micro-zoning, rather than moving it to Oyo State. At the sitting yesterday presided over by Justice U. N. Agoumoh, counsel to the claimant, Barr. Taiwo Omidoyin, drew the attention of the court to the fact that the national leadership of APC, who were respondents in the case before the court had gone ahead to appoint and inaugurate Ajimobi into the office, despite the pendency of the case. At this point, Justice Agoumoh said: “The position of this court is that the status quo ante bellum in this case still subsists.” The case had been adjourned to April 7, for further hearing. Oshiomhole, Ajimobi sued over deputy national chair position APC crisis rages on despite truce APC crisis deepens as court suspends Oshiomhole