Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero has been announced as the new emir of Kano. The Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji made the announcement today, hours after Muhammadu Sanusi ll was dethroned. Alhaji said the appointment was in line with the provision of Kano state Emirate Council Law 2019. “Section 11 (1) of the Law has empowered the governor to appoint Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero as the emir of Kano,” he said. The secretary to the state government said the four kingmakers of Kano emirate had earlier recommended the appointment of Aminu Ado Bayero as the emir of Kano. Bayero is now the 15th emir of Kano under the Fulani Dynasty. Until his appointment as emir of Kano, Bayero was the emir of Bichi, one of the four newly created emirates. Bayero is a graduate of Mass Communication from Bayero University Kano. He was also a former Danmajen Kano, Dan Buran, Sarkin Dawakin Tsakar Gida and Wamban Kano. He was later appointed emir of Bichi after the creation of Karaye, Gaya, Rano and Bichi Emirates by the present administration. The Story so far… The dethroned Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammadu Sanusi ll, has been taken to Nasarawa state, a security source hinted Daily Trust. The source said security personnel have succeeded in taken the emir out of the place around 4:30 pm. “We are right now at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA) on our way to Nasarawa state. It took us several hours to remove the emir from the palace.” A visit to the palace indicated that a combined team of heavily armed security personnel from the State Security Service, Police, Civil defence and Army took over the palace shortly after the announcement of the removal of Sanusi. Sanusi ll was dethroned on Monday over alleged disrespect to the office of the governor and other government agencies. The Secretary to the State Government,  said the emir’s action violated the part 3 section A-E of Kano state law, hence the removal. READ: Liveblog: Gov Ganduje dethrones Emir Sanusi II Earlier in the day, there was pandemonium at the Kano State House of Assembly on Monday over the lingering crisis between the state government and the now dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi ll.  Trouble started few minutes when the Chairman, House Standing Committee on Public Complaints and Petitions, Alhaji Hamza Ibrahim Ci-Dari, raised an observation regarding the the two petitions against the emir. The House received two petitions against the Emir last week. Immediately the chairman raised the issue, he was shut down by some members of the House, particularly members of the opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, who insisted that it is against the rule of the House to raise an observation during plenary on a petition that is before a committee, which has not submitted its report. Members of the APC and PDP engaged in a free-for-all fight with the aim of taking over the control of the Mace, the symbol of authority of the parliament. It took the intervention of the Sergeant at Arms and security operatives to rescue the mace from the lawmakers. The Speaker of the House, Alhaji Abdulaziz Garba Gafasa announced the postponement of the session for 30 minutes. Daily Trust observed presence of heavily armed security operatives at the assembly complex, government house and Emir’s palace. Ciroman Kano: The Road Not Taken by Sanusi Bayero Emirs appointed before court order — Ganduje Casualties of Ganduje, Sanusi quarrel