Nigeria’s telecom operator, 9mobile, has projected that its business plans would have a trickle-down impact on the businesses of its national sales partners and dealers in 2020. The telco made the projection at the  annual Channel Partners Conference with the theme ‘Facing the future together’  designed to strengthen the bond between 9mobile and its channel partners and also expand the business opportunities and potentials available in the telecommunications market. The company’s Director of Sales, Mr. Oluwatosin Olulana said: “Considering the economic situation that was pervasive in Nigeria last year, we surpassed our expectations at 9mobile. We took stock of our business activities last year, with forecast and expectations for 2020.” Outlining some propositions for 2020, he said:  “There will be more focus on simpler propositions, staying through to our promise of delivering better service in terms of data quality and pricing.  With the recent expansion of our 4G network, we have increased capacity, which means that we need to do more in terms of deployment. There is a huge potential that we can take advantage of, and we are very optimistic about meeting our expectations this year.” The Managing Director, Clickatell, Samson Isa, while  restating  9mobile’s long history of partnership with his business, said:  “It is one of the telcos that is customer-centric. They are concerned about the profitability of our partnership. We are here to strategize on our partnership and look at opportunities for growth and align with their business objectives. “One of the things I appreciate about the management team of 9mobile is their honesty. 9mobile is always looking at exploring capitalization, network improvement, pricing strategy, data, and improved service quality. I am convinced that we are on the right track and that 9mobile will bounce back strongly and do very well in the telecommunications market.” 9mobile: Parties agree to timeline extension Teleology finally acquires 9mobile, appoints new board $100m debt not hindrance to 9mobile takeover, NCC says