Nigeria recorded about 89.91 thousand Metric Tonnes (MT) consumption of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) in January 2020, the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) has said. The agency in a statement yesterday said the country exceeded its Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) Consumption target for the month of January 2020. As a custodian of petroleum products data bank, the agency provides data for all petroleum products operations in the country (imports and local) in line with her mandate number three (3) of the PPPRA Act 2003. According to government’s priority objective of attaining five million metric tonnes of LPG consumption by the year 2022, which puts the national consumption target at 83.33 thousand MT per month from 2018 to 2022 estimates, Nigeria has recorded 89.91 thousand MT LPG utilisation in the month of January 2020 with a positive variance of 7.9% above the targeted estimated figure. It will be recalled that over the past two years, Domestic LPG Consumption has steadily been on the upward swing. This upsurge is attributed to the impact of federal government policy and programme on deepening LPG penetration nationwide. It is also due to increased awareness and utilisation of LPG in the domestic economy. The improved performance of private sector operators in the products supply and distribution chain also increased its usage among Nigerians. Other possible reasons for increase in usage of LPG is the entrance of new players (investors) in the sector as a result of the good enabling environment created, and  the inclusion of new LPG storage and reception facilities in the NLNG domestic Supply chain. Given the current trend, Daily Trust reports that the federal government’s target of five million MT by 2022 is achievable if the current tempo of sensitisation and coordination is sustained and improved upon by government, regulators and industry players. The PPPRA said it is committed to the realisation of this objective and will continually strive to ensure the sustenance and improvement of the enabling commercial environment accordingly. Nigeria records 95% growth in cooking gas utilization - PPPRA Nigeria records 95% growth in cooking gas utilization, says PPPRA Nigerian Company, MOB Integrated emerges largest Supplier of LPG in West Africa