The Governor of Kaduna State, Malam Nasiru El-Rufai is set to visit the dethroned emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II in Awe LGA of Nasarawa State. The governor confirmed his visit via the official Twitter handle of the Governor of Kaduna, @GovKaduna. The account tweeted the picture of the governor in a car at 9:09am, with the caption, ‘Malam Nasir  @elrufai is on his way to Awe to visit HH Muhammadu Sanusi II’ Daily Trust had reported on Thursday that the former FCT minister was making plans to visit Sanusi. READ: Letter to my Son, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi El-Rufai recently appointed the deposed Emir as the Chancellor of the Kaduna State University(KASU). It was the second appointment for Sanusi from the Kaduna state governor within 24 hours. He was earlier appointed the Vice-Chairman of Kaduna Investment Promotion Agency (KADIPA) on Tuesday. A statement signed by the Special Adviser to the Governor (Media & Communication), Muyiwa Adekeye, said that the deposed emir Sanusi II has consented to serve as Chancellor of KASU and as Vice-Chairman of the board of KADIPA. Malam Nasir @elrufai is on his way to Awe to visit HH Muhammadu Sanusi II pic.twitter.com/xLzwJ3EmDY — Governor Kaduna (@GovKaduna) March 13, 2020  It stated that: “The Kaduna State Government has named His Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi II as the Chancellor of the Kaduna State University (KASU). He succeeds the pioneer Chancellor, His Highness, Malam Tagwai Sambo, the Chief of Moro’a, who was appointed to the role in 2005.” The statement noted that Governor El-Rufai had no doubt that as Chancellor, the deposed emir would provide symbolic and substantive leadership in raising the profile of KASU as an emerging centre of learning on the national and global level. “On behalf of the government and people of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir El-Rufai is delighted to appoint His Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi II as the Chancellor of the Kaduna State University. In public life, His Highness has demonstrated a strong commitment to education,” the statement reads in part. It said the appointment came at an exciting moment for KASU which is transiting to a multi-campus structure with presence across the state, adding that Governor El-Rufai had conveyed the profound appreciation of the government to HH Malam Tagwai Sambo for the long years of distinguished service to KASU and the state. “The Kaduna State Government is grateful that HH Muhammadu Sanusi II continues to support and assist the realisation of the governance objectives of the Kaduna State Government,” it stated. Sanusi was dethroned as Emir of Kano  and banished to Nasarawa State last Monday by the Kano State Government. His lawyers are challenging his banishment in court.  Editor’s Note: This story was updated on Friday to include the post by the Governor. El-Rufai appoints Sanusi Kaduna State University Chancellor Family visits Sanusi in Awe El-Rufai offers appointment to dethroned Emir Sanusi II