The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has canvassed some fiscal and monetary measures for urgent implementation by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), revenue collection agencies and other relevant organisations in order to ensure that government’s agenda to safeguard  public health, security and food security as the COVID-19 spreads further. While commending the government, the CBN, the National Assembly, the Organised Private Sector (OPS) leaders and local and international health organisations and donors on their efforts to contain the pandemic so far, the chamber maintained the proposed fiscal and monetary palliatives were paramount now and would guarantee quick wins on the ongoing fight against the pandemic in the country. The President of the Chamber, Mrs. Toki Mabogunje, in a statement canvassed the need for the federal government to immediately issue appropriate Executive Orders to achieve this goal. She advised that there should be seamless access to medical and food supplies, especially by the vulnerable groups; stressing the need to explore the option of cash transfers to the vulnerable groups to mitigate the pains associated with the current and imminent lockdowns in many parts of the country. The industrialist stated: “There should be immediate import duties and tax waivers for medical equipment, pharmaceutical products, food processing, raw materials and intermediate products and other essential items. All customs bottlenecks to these sectors should be removed without delay. “The Central bank should prevail on the banks to give concessions on pending private sector credit liabilities with the deposit money banks over the period of this economic crisis. “The Nigerian Customs Service, the terminal operators and other agencies of government should extend similar concessions to port users at this time. This is the time to prioritise quick wins and prompt executive actions”, Mabogunje stressed. Some of the government agencies and organisations she specifically commended for their commitment to the COVID-19 fight in terms of donations of funds and critical items and policy measures include, the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Lagos State  and other state governments, federal and states’ ministries of health. Others are the Initiative of the Private Sector Coalition led by Alhaji Aliko Dangote, the initiative of the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association with the Lagos State Government, the CBN for the intervention funds; and the Jack Ma Foundation, established by the founder of Alibaba, amongst others.  LCCI supports CBN’s interest rates retention, demands fiscal incentives CBN retains benchmark interest rate at 13.5% COVID-19: LCCI tasks experts on growth course for Nigeria’s economy