Chairman, Presidential Economic Advisory Council, Prof. Doyin Salami, yesterday said Nigeria’s economy was fragile, vulnerable and deteriorating before the outbreak of the coronavirus. Nasarawa State Governor Abdullahi Sule quoted Salami as saying this in his presentation to the National Economic Council meeting chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Sule said the NEC recommended an immediate review of the 2020 budget and its underlying assumptions, beginning with downward review of the current oil price benchmark of $57pb to not exceed $35pb, which is expected average oil price for the rest of the year in oil future market. Director-General, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Ihekweazu, listed immediate interventions on coronavirus as including the expansion of the laboratories network in Nigeria to more states and the expansion of treatment centres to at least one in each state. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning put the Excess Crude Account at $72, 220,756.74; Stabilization Account, N35, 806,389,699.67 and Natural Resources Development Fund Account, N109, 360,903,475.60. The NNPC Group Managing Director, Kyari, while speaking on the enforcement of N125 pump price for petrol, said: “Our pricing at NNPC stations which will definitely recover our cost at N125 is the decision that the NNPC has been made and we have adjusted our prices in our filling stations. What we also know is that private marketers have bought products above this price from the market. The NEC received an update report from Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai-led Ad-Hoc Committee on the Review of the Ownership Structure of the Electricity Power Distribution Companies. The report revealed: “Excluding tariff shortfall (responsibility of FGN), Discos’ indebtedness to the electricity market amounts to N230bn. According to the report, discos’ indebtedness is driven by collection short fall and low remittance. It read: “The presentation noted the following on Discos Ownership and Performance: “Upon review of NCP and NERC documentation, it has been determined that the states’ average share holding in the Discos is 27.3% based on levels of state government’s investment prior to privatization. “Between 2015-2018 Discos under invested relative to their Performance Agreement Target by 164bn and benefitted from investments by NDPHC/REA in their networks to the tune 147bn “Board composition across discos is disproportionately skewed towards private investors while states and LGAs have no representation.” The report said the sector had underperformed due to critical challenges, includes non-implementation of cost relative tariffs, misalignment between the investors and BPE on required investment in discos, underinvestment in infrastructure and poor implementation of rules/ contracts. As Nigeria records 3rd Covid-19 case: FG bans officials from foreign trips Coronavirus: Analysts express concern on implications for budget, GDP projections Economic growth slower than population rate — Advisory council