The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) yesterday urged the federal government to heed the warning of former President Olusegun Obasanjo and former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon on restructuring. The group in a joint statement endorsed by Yinka Odumakin (South West); Gen C. R.U Ihekire (South East); Senator Bassey Henshaw (South South) and Dr. Isuwa Dogo said both leaders can’t be wrong. Gowon had at a conference in Lagos called for restructuring to avoid another civil war. Obasanjo also speaking at the memorial lecture of Chief Frederick Fasheun, founder of Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC), in Lagos on Saturday spoke in a similar vein. The SMBLF, however, said warnings to Nigeria from the two oldest Nigerian ex-leaders in two months that Nigeria must restructure “to avoid a war situation is not lost” on it. They noted that retired Gen. Gowon was the man who led the country through its last civil war from 1967-70 and proclaimed “No Victor, No Vanquished,” adding this has been observed more in the breach over the years. The group also said the latest admonition from retired Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo “who fought vigorously in the war to keep Nigeria united” cannot be ignored. Besides calling for restructuring, Obasanjo also committed himself to fighting for the unity of Nigeria but on the basis of equality of all citizens. However, the SMBLF said, “This is the core issue at the heart of restructuring calls. That we can live together in peace and harmony once we make justice and equity the cornerstones of our existence as a country and not a union of the horse and the rider that is the order at the time in violation of federal spirit.” According to the statement, only those who do not wish the county well would not heed the call of the elder-statesmen. It said applying armed tactics cannot resolve the feeling of injustice and mutual suspicion by ethnic nationalities. The statement said: “It is sheer wishful thinking for anybody to assume that the displeasure that various nationalities are feeling over the many attendant inequities of unitary Nigeria can disappear with strong-arm tactics and bullying those at the receiving end with terror gangs on rampage around the country. “A cursory look at events around the world in recent years has shown clearly that the force of arms cannot succeed in keeping together, or any diverse people brought together by historical circumstance but refuse to constitute themselves with respect, justice and understanding. “We align with the patriotic interventions of the leaders and call on those in the saddle now to look beyond temporary gains of power and heed the advice to set this country on the path of negotiation, inclusiveness and a federal constitutional order. A stitch in time saves nine says ancient wisdom.” How Domkat Bali averted bloodbath during civil war - Gowon Domkat Bali averted genocide during civil war – Gowon Why agitations and separatist demands refuse to die