There was an uneasy calm in Agosasa, a community in Ipokia Local Government Area of Ogun State as officers attached to the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Ogun Command I, allegedly shot and killed a 15-year-old girl, Sekinat Agbelade. Daily Trust learned that the incident occurred at the weekend when the victim who was on an errand was hit by a stray bullet from the Customs officers, chasing a smuggled vehicle. The teenager subsequently died from the injury sustained from the bullet at a private hospital, our correspondent gathered. Apart from the deceased, two other people, one Oluwole Oladosu and Saliu Babalola, were also reportedly injured by stray bullets. An eyewitness who identified himself as   Kazeem explained that the officers were chasing a purple coloured Toyota Camry which was allegedly driven by a suspected rice smuggler. “The incident happened in Agosasa area. The Customs officers were chasing a smuggler and the exact place is called Ita-Sango. They were able to intercept the smuggler with his smuggled goods after which they started shooting indiscriminately. It was surprising that they started shooting sporadically at the people even after apprehending the smuggler. “It was in the process that this lady, who was sent on an errand to buy nylon, was hit by a bullet. Even with the bullet on her, she was making effort to run but she became weak,” he narrated. When contacted, the Spokesperson of the Command, Abdulahi Maiwada, said: “I can confirm the incident but I don’t have the facts. By the time I have the facts, I would make it available.” On his part, the Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi said he has not been briefed on the matter. Meanwhile, the Caretaker Chairman of the LGA, Kabir Abolurin, condemned the alleged killing, saying the matter will be discussed at the next local government security meeting. “We are tired and not happy about this continuous killing of our people by customs. The federal government didn’t ask them to kill innocent citizens while chasing smugglers. They don’t have the right to shoot at people. We are simply in pains in Ipokia,” he said. Customs hits teen while pursuing smugglers One shot, as hoodlums attack Customs officers, Soldiers in Ogun 3 die, as Customs officer hits students in Ogun