The wife of the Lagos State governor, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, yesterday emphasized the need for residents of the state to imbibe the habit of regular hand washing with soap and water, as well as lots of fruits intake to build immunity against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19.) Mrs Sanwo-Olu, who spoke at a special sanitation visitation of the Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials (COWLSO) to the Tejuosho ultra-modern market, Yaba, said it was important for people to adequately fortify themselves with the necessary habits to ward off any threat of disease. According to her, market sanitation was a critical factor in protecting the health of residents, adding that the state government would do everything possible to ensure hygiene in markets across the state in line with the health and environment component of the THEMES Agenda of the present administration. “Coming in to the market this morning, I saw a banner placed at the entrance gate to educate the people about coronavirus and I must commend you for that because it is important for the markets to be clean. It is also important for people to imbibe the habit of regular washing of hands with soap and water. “It is very important that we should all be aware that as long as we are eating clean and healthy vegetables and fruits, we will be able to increase our immunity so that we will be strong to fight the virus. “As a matter of fact, this time, we need a double dose of clean vegetables and a double dose of fruits. For the doctors, we recommend Vitamin C to build your immunity, and even when you have any of the attack like cough and so on, it will run its course and not stay in your body. “We will ensure that all the residents fortify their bodies by eating well, eating clean food and being in a clean environment. That is why we are starting with the markets because most people come to the market to buy things. There will also be reward for cleanest markets,” she said. Mrs Sanwo-Olu said that in line with the on-going campaign to end tuberculosis, it was equally essential to educate the people that they should use handkerchiefs to cover their mouth when coughing. If a handkerchief is not available, she added, the hand or elbow should be used to prevent the spread of the disease. She also advised on the need for regular medical check-up. Responding, the Chairman, Surulere local government, Tajudeen Ajide, commended Mrs Sanwo-Olu for choosing markets in the council as her first point of call for the sanitation visitation, saying it was clear that the health of residents was a priority to the COWLSO leadership.  Nigeria’s Coronavirus latest: 28 Quarantined in Ogun COVID-19: Lagos activates State Emergency Operations Centre Register for health insurance, Sanwo-Olu urges Lagos residents