Operators and key players in the nation’s maritime industry have set new agenda for the new Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh, as he takes over as the helmsman of the agency today. Jamoh’s appointment was announced by President Muhammadu Buhari after the out-going Director General, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, was asked to step down. Since the announcement was made by the Presidency, stakeholders in the nation’s maritime sector have been lauding Dr. Jamoh’s appointment as many believe that his appointment will bring development to the industry, especially because of his vast knowledge of the maritime industry. Jamoh, until his appointment, is the current president of the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration (CIoTA). The former President of Nigerian Shipowners Association (NISA), Aminu Umar hailed his appointment and solicited industry support for him, noting that his being part of the Dr. Dakuku Peterside-led management will enable him to consolidate on the success recorded so far. He said, “I wish him all the best as we all know, he is a veteran, an insider and he is also a veteran in transport Administration because he is the president of CIoTA so, it is a better day ahead for the maritime industry.” A former president of Shipowners Association of Nigeria (SOAN), Engr. Greg Ogbeifun, described the choice of Jamoh as a good development for the industry. He said:  “This is the first time a true insider is being appointed as the DG and that to me is a very good development. He definitely will have his own strategy on how to deliver on the mandate. I am very comfortable with his appointment”, the industry expert added. Also, a member of the Steering Committee of the Nigerian Shipowners Association (NISA), Taiwo Akinpelumi, who also hailed the appointment of Jamoh, said he is a round peg in a round hole given his years of experience in the industry. He urged him to use his appointment to foster greater collaboration with industry stakeholders to redirect the industry towards greater heights. On his part, Chairman, Port Consultative Council (PCC) Otunba Kunle Folarin said: “We are glad that an insider has been considered for the office of the DG because the industry has been pushing for a long time that an industry person rather than only politicians be considered for the office of the DG, which is highly sensitive in the areas of maritime administration and policy.” Buhari removes Peterside, appoints Bashir Jamoh as NIMASA DG NIMASA among top 5 contributing to FG revenue – Dakuku NIMASA pushes for 7000 new jobs