Religious leaders in Plateau State have been cautioned to be wary of social media content, and to be always conscious of what they post or receive on their social media platforms. The African Center for Media and Information Literacy (AFRICMIL), which issued the call, noted that in recent times, social media platforms were being used for ulterior objectives to promote religious violence in the country. The group disclosed in Jos during a town hall meeting on inter-religious and inter-cultural dialogue organised to unite and restore confidence and promote peaceful coexistence among adherents of Christianity and Islam in Plateau State. Coordinator of the group, Chindo Onumah, said the dialogue was meant to project media and information literacy as key components in wading off religious and ethnic conflicts, in view of the country’s multi-ethnic and multi-religious nature. “The potentials for intense religious crises are even more obvious in this age of internet technology where websites, blogs, and social media platforms are routinely deployed to disseminate fake information and hate messages. Religious leaders have to be active social media participants in order to play their parts in bringing down the level of false information being posted and to minimize excessive stereotypes,” he said. Rev. Zaka Ahuche Peter, who represented the state chapter of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), said “We should understand that no religion preaches hatred in the world, as disunity and conflict stand far beyond any religious doctrine. We should not allow ourselves to be used by some selfish individuals who often misuse religion for their personal political interests.” In his remark, Sheikh Ghazali Ismail, Deputy Chief Imam of Jos, who represented Jamaatu Nasril Islam (JNI), described the programme as laudable service to humanity, and called on Christians and Muslims to be ambassadors of peace in their respective communities and ensure a positive application of social media. Centre unveils literacy project to strengthen inter-faith relation The value of dialogue partners UFUK dialogue for peaceful elections