The Ekiti State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) says it will be deploying 250 personnel across the state in its effort to curtail the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, in line with the agency’s Commandant-General’s directive. The NSCDC said the personnel would be drawn from the Crisis Management Department, which includes the Disaster Management and Medical units, and work with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Humanitarian Task Force in the Ekiti State health sector for the purpose of surveillance, response and enforcement of safety rules and laws. The Ekiti State Commandant, Mr Solomon Iyamu, according to the Command’s Corps Public Relations Officer, Tolu Afolabi, explained yesterday that the 250 personnel would be part of the 9,500 officers sourced nationwide from the Corps, as each state command was expected to replicate the number. Iyamu enjoined the general public to heed the advice and directives of the Federal Ministry of Health on social distancing, washing of hands with soap and water or use of hand sanitizers, and avoid public gatherings in order to curb the spread of the disease. In Ogun State, the NSCDC disclosed yesterday that it has already deployed 250 of its men to strategic places in the state to enforce the federal and state governments’ directives banning large gatherings in the state. The state Commandant of the Corps, Hammed Abodunrin, said this shortly after sensitising traders and commercial motorcyclists in the Kuto area of Abeokuta on dangers associated with COVID-19. Abodunrin said it had become imperative to continuously sensitise traders on the need for personal hygiene, considering the deadly nature of the coronavirus pandemic. He added that the Corps, aside ensuring that hand washing facilities were located at strategic places across the state, would continue to visit markets to educate and enlighten the people on ways of preventing the virus. “As at today, the number of people infected in Nigeria is more than 50. In some other countries, we know they have it in hundreds and thousands, but we don’t want that to happen here. He said that the Command had also developed plans to visit and sensitise owners and managers of hotels, guest houses and motels on safety precautions to prevent the spread of the virus. “I can also tell you that the state government has formed a task force that will start enforcing this minimum number of 20 persons and social distancing measures. “The Civil Defence has a disaster management department and the Commandant General, Abdullahi Muhammed, has directed the Corps nationwide to move round and enforce all laws and all directives as handed out by the NCDC and the state governors,” he said. NSCDC arrests herbalist over money ritual Ekiti NSCDC arrests 2 herders, detains 100 cows COVID-19: NSCDC deploys 245 personnel to monitor, enforce govt’s directives in Enugu