The Lagos State House of Assembly has sacked two of its principal officers over what it described as gross misconduct, insubordination and actions capable of destabilizing the House. The affected principal officers include the Chief Whip, Hon. Rotimi Abiru and the Deputy Majority Leader of the House, Hon. Olumuyiwa Jimoh. Two members of the House including Hon. Moshood Oshun representing Lagos Mainland Constituency 2 and Hon. Kazeem Raheem Adewale representing Ibeju Lekki Constituency 2 were also suspended indefinitely during the plenary. The Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa announced the punitive measures following voice votes by members who were present at the plenary on Monday. He stated that the House is the hope of the people and the heartbeat of democracy, adding that as such, it should be well guided. “I hereby invoke Section 68 and Section 70 4 (a, b) 2 and 3 of the House rules in respect of gross misconduct, insubordination and action that can destablize this House. I hereby move that Hon. Moshood Oshun and Hon. Raheem Adewale be placed on suspension indefinitely,” the Speaker said. The removal notice of the principal officers and change in leadership was contained in a letter read at the plenary by the Clerk of the House, Mr. Azeez Sanni who explained that the letter signed by 26 members notified the House to change the leadership of the House including Mr. Abiru and Mr. Jimoh. Their removal also came amidst speculation that there were critical issues that could divide the House, adding that more revelations might come in the coming days. Meanwhile, the House announced the death of a Principal Legislative Officer on Grade Level 12, Mr. Debo Adegbesan who died in the early hours of Monday March 9, 2020 at the age of 37 years. It however adjourned sitting to tomorrow, March 10, 2020. Ekiti assembly bans PDP lawmaker for six weeks for alleged misconduct Oyo Assembly orders arrest of state Accountant-General Ekiti House suspends another member for 101 legislative days