After the February 13, 2020 Supreme Court judgement that declared the PDP’s Douye Diri as governor of Bayelsa State and his subsequent swearing-in on February 14, 2020, politicians belonging to the party have been thronging the Toro-Orua home of the immediate past governor, Henry Seriake Dickson to lobby for place in Diri’s administration. Diri, who came a distant second during the November 16, 2019 governorship election in the state, behind the initial winner, Chief David Lyon of the All Progressives Congress, was enthroned as the Bayelsa State governor following the Supreme Court judgement which disqualified Lyon’s running mate, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, thereby invalidating the joint ticket. Dickson is a political god-father to Diri; he nominated him from his ‘Restoration Caucus’ as the candidate of PDP during the election against all odds and stakeholders’ interest. The former governor is expected to play a pivotal role in nominating who takes position in Diri’s government especially in the first few years. A source in Toro-Orua, the traditional home of ex-governor Dickson, told Daily Trust that the former governor’s farm became a beehive of activities as politicians thronged in to prevail on the ex-governor to recommend them for appointment either as commissioners, special advisers or even personal aides to the incumbent governor. According to him, that was the normal way of politics in the state; the people that supported the governor to win election must be recommended to serve in the government. Governor Diri had recently appointed a former speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mr Konbowei Friday Benson as Secretary to the State Government; Chief Benson Agadaga, Chief of Staff; Peter Akpe, Deputy Chief of Staff; and Mr Irorodamie Komonibo as Principal Secretary to the governor. Last week, former political appointees under governor Dickson visited him at his Toro-Orua mansion. They were followed by local government chairmen and councillors from the eight local government areas of the state. Governor Diri, said recently that he will soon forward the names of his cabinet members to the State House of Assembly for screening and confirmation. Bayelsa senatorial race: Supporters clamour for Dickson, Lyon Diri sworn in amid violent protests Suspense over S/Court judgment on Bayelsa