It takes a lot of creativity and wisdom to transform waste materials and by-products into new materials or products of better quality and environmental value. A female entrepreneur who specialises in upcycling shared her experiences with Daily Trust Saturday. Olabanke Subair is the director and founder, Cyrus 45, an art, furnishing and furniture company that converts solid wastes like tyres and bottles into chairs, tables and automats. The factory, which was established in 2017, has 10 members of staff – five production members and five part time administrative members. The inspiration behind upcycling business While working as a blogger in 2016, my sister’s neighbour had a pile of 20 tyres wasting in their compound and they wanted to throw them away. I have always been a lover of upcycling, so I told them to give me the old tyres, though I did not really have any idea of what I was going to do with them. Thanks to my creative mind and the help of goggle, I was able to discover the possibility of making chairs, tables and automats through upcycling. I was able to put what I studied into practice and made my first table. That was how the business started. I realised that upcycling has actually been going on in countries like America, Germany, United Kingdom and other places. I would like to say that entrepreneurship found me; I did not find it. How to make good use of every situation, season What I would like to tell everyone is that Nigeria is a goldmine. It takes tenacity, hard work and innovation to thrive in this country. So you need to take advantage of every situation and season. A clear example is the boy who invented a bucket with a tap that flows when it detects a hand under it. This bucket would help to reduce the spread of covid-19 in families and communities that do not have running taps. It is a good innovation for this season. If I were not thinking about a solution to a problem like tyre waste, which contributes to environmental pollution and health hazard, how would I have turned these wastes into beautiful art? In fact, I wouldn’t have been where I am today. So it is about finding solutions to problems. According to Ibukun Awosika, taking necessary steps to proffer solutions to problems means that you are creating values that people can pay for. This is how I can encourage people to make the best out of this covid-19 situation and other opportunities in Nigeria. If you discover the need to solve a problem, you would find the silver lining in the dark clouds There are many opportunities in this country. We see many brilliant ideas everywhere. I do not believe it when people say there is no job out there. The truth is that there are jobs out there, it is just for you to be able to find it and think of how to develop it. Brilliant ideas are inexhaustible. Always think of how you can give back to your community, country and the world. If you think along this line, I believe you would find something to do. How far the business has gone We have upcycled and sold over 1,000 tyres since 2017. The responses to our products have been really encouraging, amazing and overwhelming. We have gotten orders and demands from people in foreign countries like Canada, Jamaica, Ghana, USA and the United Kingdom. This validates what we are doing. It shows that what we are doing is impactful and innovative. However, we have not started supplying to these countries because of logistics. Nevertheless, meeting requests from these countries is one of the things we are hoping to achieve this year, by God’s grace. Doing business in this season of covid-19 In this stay-at-home period aimed at reducing the spread of coronavirus, also known as covid-19, we are expected to be cautious and apply preventive measures. You need to make the most of it by not panicking but rather getting your hands to work. My business does not really have to do with a lot of interfacing with clients physically, so I work from home. I can have phone conversations, text messages or interact on the social media and the deal is sealed. I urge prospective businesspersons and even the unemployed to get to work. Covid-19 is not the end of the world; let us keep praying and applying preventive measures as we continue our businesses. I have never heard where worry solves a problem. Challenges businesswomen face To be honest, one of the challenges of being in the manufacturing sector as a woman is lack of respect. Working with artisans who are mostly men can be difficult because they struggle to take instructions from a woman, especially as furniture or carpentry has been deemed a man’s job. That notwithstanding, I am glad that more people are beginning to realise the intrinsic entrepreneurial abilities of a woman and how these solve socioeconomic problems. I am full of hope that everything would get better. Why I recycle waste tyres to beautify homes — Rachael ‘Consistency is key to making money in business’ How tyre business thrives in Abuja