The Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) and the Central Bank of Nigeria are taking steps to strengthen the operators of Micro Finance Banks (MFBs) with a view to making them relevant to the needs of farmers. The Managing Director, NDIC, Umaru Ibrahim, who disclosed this yesterday while speaking at the NDIC Special Day at the ongoing 41st Kaduna International Trade Fair, said the MFBs had been categorised based on stipulated capital requirement to further meet farmers’ needs. Represented at the event by the Director, Communication and Public Affairs Department, Dr.  Sunday Olufemi, the Managing Director noted that in addition, the corporation and the CBN are financing the development of the National Microfinance Banks Unified Information Technology (NAMBUIT) platform designed to address the challenge of technology in the operations of MFBs. According to him, the platform will reduce Information Technology (IT) cost by the banks, ease reporting to regulatory authorities and reinvigorate their operations. A total of 110 MFBs had boarded the platform as at 31st December, 2019. He also spoke on the Nigerian Financial Safety-Net initiative, adding that a crucial public policy objective of the corporation, which derived from its core mandate of deposit guarantee, bank supervision, distress resolution and bank liquidation, is the protection of depositors of licensed banks as well as promoting public confidence in the financial system.  The objectives are. On payments to depositors of failed financial institutions over the years, the deposit insurance expert disclosed that “to date, the NDIC has fully paid all the depositors of 18 closed Deposit Money Banks all their monies (both insured and uninsured) that were trapped in such banks. He said creditors and shareholders of the closed banks had also been paid liquidation dividends to the tune of N4.987 billion as at 31st December, 2019. “In the same vein, the Corporation has developed the framework for the extension of Deposit Insurance cover to the tune of N500,000  per depositor for depositors of Payment Service Banks (PSBS)”, Ibrahim added. He further spoke on the roles of the PSBS, which were recently granted licence in principle by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), in the financial system, saying that they are established to provide basic banking and financial services to individuals and small businesses. The corporation’s chief assured its readiness to ensure that depositors of the PSBS will be protected once they commence commercial operations. “This development underscores the operational readiness of the NDIC and its commitment to the enhancement of public confidence in the nation’s banking system”, the insurance expert added. NDIC intervention has saved N1.75tr depositors’ liabilities Re: Liquidation of Fortis Microfinance Bank Payments to failed banks’ depositors hit N116.2bn - NDIC