The Ogun State Commissioner for Environment, Abiodun Abudu Balogun, says the state government is constructing 1,300 public toilets across the state as part of moves to control open defecation. Balogun also disclosed that the state government would launch ‘Operation Remove Abandoned Vehicles’ to get rid of disused vehicles, which, according to him, were being used for open defecation and to harbour criminals. The Commissioner, briefing journalists yesterday at his office at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, on the activities of the ministry, explained that the government had allocated funds to construct about 800 toilets, while additional 500 would be jointly constructed by the state and a foreign organisation. He said, “We are keying into the eradication of open defecation programme. In some of our homes in Ogun State, they don’t even have toilets. These are very old houses, but then our officers are going out on daily basis to ensure they comply with this basic requirement. “The government is planning to construct public toilets all over the state to check the open defecation problem. We are planning to work with a foreign organisation to construct over 500 toilets in Ogun State and, in addition to that, we also have in our budget a plan to construct 800 this year. “If we are able to construct toilets all over the state, there won’t be justification for anybody to engage in open defecation. Then, we can sanction people appropriately.” On flooding, Balogun said the government had commenced the desilting and clearing of drainages, as well as dredging of rivers to curb flood disaster. He vowed that the government would close down illegal dumpsites and urged residents to make use of the government-designated refuse dumpsites. The Commissioner described the spread of destitute elements across streets in the state as “a well-coordinated cartel business”, and expressed the government’s resolution to get rid of them. He accused companies of failure to adhere strictly to the rules and regulations on pollution control and warned that the government would continue to wield the big stick as “many of the industries were not ready to embrace peaceful admonition.”  Osogbo drowning in Open Defecation FG urges states to enact laws banning open defecation Jigawa approves N60m for public toilets