Representatives of Borno State students in tertiary institutions nationwide gathered last Monday to express gratitude to Governor Babagana Zulum for approving the resumption of the payment of scholarship allowances to them, six years after it was stopped. To emphasise the gesture they went down the memory lane, each recalling the intense difficulties they  encountered to sponsor themselves  with most of them saying that they had to sell their parents’ farm produce to pay for their registration fees at the beginning of every academic session as well as  their graduation projects. “Most of us encountered untold hardships and challenges over the last six years when scholarship allowances were not paid,” Bilyaminu Umar Ngulde, of Ramat Polytechnic, Maiduguri, told Kanem Trust. “At the risk of plunging our parents into hunger and poverty, most of us had to sell whatever little farm produce they could harvest to pay  their registration fees and produce their graduation projects,” Bilyaminu said. “So many of us had to sell, not only their parents’ farm produce, but even some of their other properties to wade through, amidst increased cost of hostel accommodation and tuition fees,” Babagana Mohammed Mailafiya, a 500 level student of the University of Maiduguri recalled. “With most of us coming from the rural areas, and considering the insecurity weakening the state economy, the difficulties we encountered without any form of assistance such as the scholarship allowances were immense,” Umar Ali Mustapha of Kashim Ibrahim College of Education, said. “What my fellow students told you is true,” Umar said, stressing, “we had to sell the farm produce and some other properties of our parents to survive schooling.” “This is why we are extremely happy with the resumption of the payment of scholarship allowances. I, for example, can now produce my final year project with the N20,000 allowance I have just received.” Earlier in his address, the National Speaker of the National Union of Borno State Students (NUBOSS), Sulaiman Mohammed Mailafiya, thanked Governor Zulum, on behalf of all the students for releasing N624 million and N100 million for the settlement of scholarship allowances for the 2019/2020 sessions to  students studying both within and outside the country.  Gombe law students groan over unpaid scholarship Students face nightmares to obtain scholarships Borno pays scholarship allowances, first time in 6yrs