A cross-section of Nigerians yesterday reacted to the dethronement of the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi II. Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) in its reaction called for calm following the dethronement of the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II over what the Kano State Government described as “disrespect to lawful instructions from the state governor and other lawful authorities.” The forum, in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, said it had earlier intervened in the feud between the Kano State government and Kano Emirate Council and had called for an amicable resolution. It stated that with yesterday’s turn of events, it was calling for calm and understanding especially among the good people of Kano State and Nigerians. On his part, Senator Shehu Sani said, “The removal of Emir Sanusi represents the incompatibility of the crown and conscience, the consequences of dissent against established norms and the heavy price of holding principles in our North. It also revealed the intolerance and toxicity of the liquor of power.” In his reaction, Dele Momodu, a veteran journalist and publisher of Ovation magazine, tweeted that he hoped now that “Governor Ganduje and his co-conspirators have taken their pound of flesh by dethroning the Emir of Kano, their eyes will clear and see later that their own power too is transient! No matter the sins of Emir Sanusi, he is one of the finest citizens of Nigeria.” Reno Omokri, a former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan insisted that the former CBN governor got what he deserved. In a tweet, the former presidential aide also recalled that he once said those who lied against Jonathan would pay. He tweeted: “Last year, I said everyone who falsely accused @GEJonathan, would pay for it. Sanusi Lamido Sanusi is a liar and a manipulative individual, who deliberately lied against GEJ to facilitate the election of General @MBuhari. He has his Buhari. Is he happy?” Ganduje to name new Emir of Kano today Why we removed Sanusi as Emir of Kano — Ganduje Frank lauds Ganduje over Sanusi