A friend to Bauchi state governor, Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, has tested positive for Coronavirus (COVID-19). The Commissioner of Health in Bauchi state, Dr Aliyu Muhammed Maigoro, disclosed this to newsmen in Bauchi on Thursday. “Today, 26 March, 2020, the state has recorded a second confirmed case of Coronavirus. Out of the 48 highly risk persons tested, two have been confirmed positive. 37 returned negative and we are awaiting the results of nine samples,” he said. EDITOR’S PICK: Nigeria’s COVID-19 cases rise to 51 The Commissioner did not disclose the identity of the person but said the second case is a 62-year-old friend of the first case (Governor Bala Mohammed). He added: “We are now tracing the contacts of the second case. I will not disclose the identity of the person because it is unethical though the governor ordered us to disclose his identity.” The Commissioner explained that the two index cases are not showing symptoms except the confirmation from the investigation. He noted that the second infected person has been isolated and has already started treatment. He called on the people of the state to remain calm as the government is working to control the situation. Daily Trust reports that Governor Bala Mohammed had tested positive for Coronavirus two days ago. The Special Assistant to the Governor on Media, Mukhtar Gidado, had confirmed this in a statement issued to newsmen in Bauchi on Tuesday. He said that out of the six tests carried out by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) earlier this week, one was confirmed positive for COVID-19. Daily Trust had earlier reported that Governor Mohammed was in self-isolation after having contact with one of the sons of a former Nigerian Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, who also tested positive for the Coronavirus. Also, Daily Trust had earlier reported that President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, many governors, ministers and other top government functionaries had mingled with Malam Abba Kyari, the Chief of Staff to the president shortly before he tested positive to the coronavirus. Kyari, who returned to Nigeria from Germany on March 14, had participated in several state functions and unofficial engagements that attracted prominent personalities. COVID-19: 'Bauchi governor's test result to be out in 24 hours' NCDC confirms 2 more Covid-19 infections, raising total to 46 Come forward if you had contact with Gov Mohammed, Bauchi govt urges public