Churches in Abakiliki, the Ebonyi State capital and environs held their usual Sunday services. Also, night clubs on Saturday night were opened in some areas, with those who defied the order saying they were optimistic that the virus would not reach the state. Many churches in Kaduna yesterday held services but our correspondent reports that there were no much precautionary measures such as hand washing facilities or the use of hand sanitizers. However, few churches insisted that worshippers must comply before entering the church buildings. Iliyasu Jeremiah, an official at Assemblies of God Church, in Sabo, told our correspondent that though there were no precautionary measures before fellowship, the Church secretary had given a pep talk on preventive measures against Covid-19. He said: “We we’re told to avoid crowded places and wash our hands with soap and water frequently but there was no discussion as to whether church service will be suspended from next week or not.” At the Living Faith Church in Unguwan Pama in Sabo, Juliet Abraham told Daily Trust that:  “We have been told to worship at the level of House Fellowship as from next week; and where there are more than 50 people, the House will further be broken into smaller clusters.” Many churches in Jos, the Plateau State capital were yet to comply with the directive of not putting many people together in one place. Most of the churches monitored only reminded their members about personal precautionary measures/hygiene. Also, Catholic churches in Owerri and its environs observed the regular masses of 5 am, 6 am 9.30 and 11 am with thousands of people in attendance. In Akwa Ibom, many worshippers were seen on their way to different churches as early as 6am and prayers were offered against the spread of Covid-19, while parishioners were told to shake hands with fellow members. One of our correspondents, who went round Makurdi metropolis in Benue State, observed that most churches with large congregation ensured that their followers used hand sanitizers. The Clergy at FFC, Rev. Paulitodo Samuel, who emphasised the need for precautionary steps against the Covid-19, assured his followers of God’s safety as found in the Holy Bible in Psalm 91:1-16. It was observed that Sunday services were held in Lafia, capital of Nasarawa State. But Mary Wamba said she did not go to church because she was on self -isolation.  Coronavirus: Abuja churches flout ban on gatherings Jos blasts: 48 buried Low turnout in churches at peaceful Christmas