The Federal Government has approved the composition of a power sector reform coordination working group to harmonise the various efforts of the federal and state governments to fix the power sector. The group which was approved by President Muhammadu Buhari will through the National Economic Council (NEC) on power sector reform, oversee the design and implementation of a well-coordinated roadmap for the sector. A statement from the Governor of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir El-Rufai who is also the chairman of the committee set up by the NEC on power sector reform, said the new group would incorporate ongoing efforts of the committee to ensure that all power sector initiatives are on the same page under the leadership of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. It would be recalled that in November 2019, the NEC had constituted an ad-hoc committee to determine the nature and extent of state governments’ ownership of DISCOs and provide feedback on the challenges in power sector reforms. “This new presidential working group will coordinate the ad-hoc committee and other efforts on a national scale, and report the progress fortnightly to Mr. President,” the statement said. It further stated that the group which would meet weekly, commenced work at the Presidential Villa on Tuesday with the vice president presiding, adding that the president would receive updates and briefings twice a month on the progress. It stated that members of the group include Malam Nasir El-Rufai, representing the Nigeria Governors’ Forum as well as the NEC and the Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari, who leads the German Government/Siemens initiative to improve power supply and Minister of Power, Engr. Saleh Mamman. Others are; the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed and the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emiefele, while the Special Adviser to the President on Infrastructure, Ahmad Zakari, will serve as secretary. Can civil society, consumers synergy improve power supply? Power: FG to release fresh N701bn lifeline FG closes bids for 10 NIPP power plants today