There was an explosion that shook Akure early Saturday morning along Akure- Owo road in Ondo State. The explosion destroyed close to a hundred houses, a church and a school, according to our correspondent. The Ondo State commissioner of Police, Mr Adie Undie, confirmed that the explosion was caused by explosives being conveyed in a truck to a quarry company in Edo State. The incident, Daily Trust learnt, occurred at about 1:am. According to the police, the explosion, which occurred close to Akure Airport, cut off the Akure-Owo road into two and left several people injured. The truck, Adie said, was flagged down by policemen at a check point, adding that: “They notified the truck driver of a flame of fire under the truck, it reportedly exploded when they came down to ascertain the cause of the fire”. As at the time of filling this report, it was not clear whether lives have been lost. A source said the security vehicle was still at the scene while those injured at the church have been taken to the federal medical centre, Owo.  Ondo governor gives order Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has ordered that the scene of the explosion be cordoned off to allow police bomb squad extricate the vehicle still buried underground. Governor Akeredolu, who was at the scene to see the damage, said it was still unclear whether there are still explosives yet to be detonated. He said he had been briefed by the security chiefs that; “in the early hours of Saturday March 28th, a vehicle in a convoy transporting explosives to a storage facility in a neighbouring state developed a fault while in transit along the Akure Owo Road about 2km from the Akure Airport. “Security personnel and other individuals transporting the ordinances noticed smoke from the vehicle. “After several attempts to extinguish the resulting fire failed, the vehicle and its consignment ignited causing a massive explosion that was felt in Akure and its environs. “Presently, efforts are being made to ascertain if there are casualties. “Following my visit to the scene, I have directed that the area be cordoned off to allow the explosive ordinance department/bomb squad to extricate the vehicle buried underground because it is unclear if there are still explosives that are yet to be detonated. “Everything is under control and I will be updating the public on any new developments. Security personnel and other individuals transporting the ordinances noticed smoke from the vehicle. After several attempts to extinguish the resulting fire failed, the vehicle and its consignment ignited causing a massive explosion that was felt in Akure and its environs. pic.twitter.com/LNIb83ZSAf — Arakunrin Akeredolu (@RotimiAkeredolu) March 28, 2020  Presently, efforts are being made to ascertain if there are casualties. Following my visit to the scene, I have directed that the area be cordoned off to allow the explosive ordinance department/bomb squad to extricate the vehicle buried underground because… pic.twitter.com/aohdC1Rf7C — Arakunrin Akeredolu (@RotimiAkeredolu) March 28, 2020  Meanwhile, there is serious gridlock on the ever busy Akure- Owo expressway due to the explosion as vehicles plying Akure – Owo- Abuja road seek alternative route. Police yet to identify 5 tanker fire victims in Ondo Accident: 19 burnt beyond recognition in Ondo 2 killed, 80 houses, 30 cars destroyed in Lagos explosion