Nigeria’s senators have donated 50 per cent of their salary each to support efforts at combating the coronavirus pandemic in the country. Daily Trust had earlier reported that the federal lawmakers were under pressure to donate their salaries for the fight against coronavirus after ministers had donated 50 per cent of their March 2020 salaries. Many wealthy Nigerians have also donated billions of Naira to strengthen the fight against the spread of the COVID-19. The acting spokesman of the Senate, Senator Godiya Akwashiki, in a statement, explained that the upper legislative chamber made the decision to donate after a  review of the national efforts to contain the pandemic. He said the monthly contribution, starting from March, would be sustained until Nigeria is declared safe from the deadly virus. He said, “After due consultations following a review of the national efforts to contain the coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria, the Senate wishes to announce that from March 2020, distinguished senators will be donating 50 per cent of their salaries to these efforts to stop the spread of the disease, otherwise known as COVID-19, in our country. “This monthly contribution from the Upper Legislative Chamber will be sustained until Nigeria is declared safe from the ravages of this deadly disease.” The Red Chamber, according to Akwashiki, commended the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari as well as the patriotic response of public-spirited individuals and organisations to the fight against the pandemic. The Senate, he said, was willing and ready to do whatever was required of the legislature for the effectiveness of all the measures in place now or that may be required in the future to win the fight against this menace. “The Senate commends all agencies at the federal and state levels for working in collaboration to protect public health across the country,” Akwashiki added. COVID-19: Nigerian senators donate 50 percent of salaries COVID-19: Senators, Reps under pressure to donate March salary Ministers donate 50% of March salary to COVID-19 efforts - Mohammed