As the economic impact of the Coronavirus that is ravaging China spreads to ther countries, Nigeria is also experiencing significant impact on projects being executed by Chinese contractors in Nigeria. One of the key projects that are also significantly hit is the Lagos-Ibadandouble gauge rail line that is being executed by the China Civil Engineering and Construction Company (CCECC). The over $1.5bn facility which the FG took over 80 percent of the money fromthe China EXIM was billed for completion latest June 2020, the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi had said last year.  Part of the conditions of the loan was that a Chinese firm will execute the project, and CCECC has been sourcing majority of the equipment and other supplies needed forthe project from China, a situation the minister had previously asked CCECC tomake do with local substitutes and in respect to the local content prescription. Also, a number of the management and technical staff on theproject are Chinese. Our correspondent gathered from sources familiar with the project, but who pleaded anonymity, that some technical Chinese staff on the project are holed upin China because of the travel restrictions following the Coronavirus outbreak. Also, shipment of facilities meant for the project has been stopped, thus leaving the project in dare need of critical supplies. He said majority of the items needed are finishing materials, irons, rolling stock and other criticalitems. “The work on the project site has slowed. Some of the staff are not back andsome critical facilities haven’t been shipped for the work to go on as quickly as possible,” he said. He however noted that CCECC might also be cashing inon the Corona outbreak to slow down pace of work. Reacting to the devolvement, Mr. Vincent Liu, General Manager Corporate Culture, CCECC, confirmed that some of its workers “have delayed or rather postponed their return for safety reasons.” However, he said “this has minimal impact on the project. We have been working round the clock to deliver the project based onthe mandate of the Minister of Transportation. Many of our workers could noteven travel to celebrate the Lunar new year” he stated further, adding that “most of the specialist manpower needed are on ground, and we are working according to schedule.” On equipment shipment, he said “quarantine efforts to contain the spread of the Coronavirus are in place along shipping lines. Global supply Chain is suffering as a result of concerns for seafarers, cargoes and passengers, and quarantining of ships. This has implication forevery business all over the world, not just CCECC. As a result, some equipment meant for the project may be delayed in arriving Nigeria” he confirmed.  Saraki reaffirms commitment to using local content in Lagos-Ibadan rail construction Osinbajo arrives Ogun for ground breaking of Wagon Assembly Plant FG, CRCC sign $3.9bn Abuja-Itakpe rail, Warri port contract