Ijaw youths, under the aegis of Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) have alleged that the Federal Government is violating an Act that established Niger-Delta Development Commission (NDDC) over its refusal to constitute substantive board before inaugurating the Advisory Committee. IYC, through its president, Eric Omare, in a statement while reacting to the inauguration of the Advisory Committee on Tuesday, said without a substantive governing board in place, it amounts to an exercise in futility. Daily Trust reports that the newly inaugurated committee was made up of the nine governors of the oil producing states as well as the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, and his counterpart in the Ministry of Environment, Mr. Mohammed Mahmoud. Omare also noted that inaugurating Advisory and Monitoring Committees for the commission without a substantive board in place is akin to building a house without foundation, adding that “the Monitoring Committee’s responsibility is to monitor the execution of the policies and programmes embarked upon by the board.” He argued that the substantive board which includes the management committee is to initiate and implement policies and programmes for the Commission with the Advisory Committee offering advice to the board on the initiation and execution of the policies and programmes. The youth leader said, “Without a substantive Governing Board in place, it amounts to an exercise in futility and a violation of the NDDC Act for the President to appoint a Monitoring Committee and inaugurate Advisory committee. “The federal government’s deliberate refusal to comply with the NDDC Act with respect to the appointment of a substantive board under the guise of an endless and opaque forensic audit is baffling. “The Niger Delta region has suffered unaccountable losses because of the absence of a board of the NDDC. We note that billions of Naira has been spent by the illegal contraption called, Interim Management committee without accountability and impact on the people of the region. “Therefore, we wish to state for the umpteenth time and call on President Buhari to inaugurate the substantive board of the NDDC without delay in compliance with the Act and in the interest of the development of the region. We state that having a board is not an obstacle to the forensic audit of the NDDC.” It would be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari had disclosed how law enforcement agencies recovered over N3.7billion and other assets worth billions of naira from contractors and former directors of the commission. Akpabio in stormy waters over NDDC board Ijaw youths threaten to shut down Nigeria's Oil Production over confab recommendations Buhari, NDDC and the danger of executive recklessness