The Chairman of Labour Party (LP) in Ogun State, Comrade Abayomi Arabambi, yesterday challenged the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Olakunle Oluomo and other lawmakers who recently returned from the United Kingdom, to make themselves available for COVID-19 test. Also, the National Association of Ogun State Students (NAOSS) called on the legislators to subject themselves to COVID-19 test to determine their health status. Daily Trust reports that the lawmakers and some civil servants in the assembly who travelled to the UK where they reportedly spent 10 days, had returned to the state on March 13. Arabambi, in a statement, said the lawmakers who failed to undergo test or isolate themselves might be endangering lives of the assembly workers and members of their families. He said, “At this point, it has become grave; so dangerous and compulsory to force not only those who just returned from the UK and other western countries, but all the members of the legislature including the Speaker and the totality of the staff and aides with their families to be sent immediately into isolation. “Even the friends identified to have come into contact with all the mentioned should be compelled to self-isolate themselves and thereafter be screened. “It is clearly a thing of shame that some highly positioned individuals could deliberately be callous enough to endanger the lives of the citizens of Ogun State in this reckless manner.” Similarly, a statement issued in Abeokuta on Wednesday by NAOSS National President, Gbemileke Ogunrombi, noted that it was important for the lawmakers to submit themselves to the test. “The assembly, as an arm of government, must lead by example and heed to the call of the people of the state by going for COVID-19 test and also subject themselves to isolation until their health statuses are determined. “To stop the spread of COVID-19, it is imperative for the lawmakers to go for test and not further increase the tension in the state,” the statement said. COVID-19: Ogun confirms new case, identifies 32 care-givers, relatives Covid-19: Edo speaker tests positive Coronavirus: Go for test, Lawan tells Senators who return from foreign trips