As the APC crisis lingers, top shots of the party in Lagos are strategising to protect the interest of the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, findings by Daily Trust have shown. Many of the loyalists and associates of the APC leader and former Lagos State governor declined to comment openly on the crisis, saying they were being tactical since their principal has not made any open comment on the development. “But certainly many things are going on behind the scenes which we don’t want to comment openly about. “At the appropriate time, we will make our position known on the issue but we are being tactical now that Asiwaju, who is our principal, has not said anything,” one of the APC chieftains who pleaded anonymity said. Another source said, “I can tell you we are not going to allow anyone to rubbish our leader. We remain solidly behind him and we don’t fear any evil machinations from any quarters. But at the appropriate time, you shall hear from us.” The media aide to Tinubu, Mr Tunde Rahaman also declined to respond to our correspondent’s enquiry as at the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, the Lagos State chapter of the APC has thrown its weight behind the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over what it called “the needless and avoidable crisis” in the party. Spokesman of the party, Hon. Seye Oladejo, in a statement, said “the dogged and passionate leadership” provided by Oshiomhole was what gave the party victory in the 2019 presidential election. Daily Trust reports that the state APC has always been one of the arch supporters of the Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC). The APC National Leader and former Lagos governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is one of the strong backers of Oshiomhole. In standing behind him, the Lagos APC said through Oshiomhole’s doggedness, the party did not only “retain the presidency but also won the majority of the seats at the National Assembly. “That gave birth to the progressive leadership at the two arms of the National Assembly,” the party added. Why we think Tinubu is being sidelined – Lagos APC chairman Rift between Buhari, Tinubu over ministerial list Atiku, Tinubu  consider plan ‘B’