The just dethroned Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammadu Sanusi ll, has been taken to Nasarawa state, a security source hinted Daily Trust. The source said security personnel have succeeded in taken the emir out of the place around 4:30pm. “We are right now at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA) on our way to Nasarawa state. It took us several hours to remove the emir from the palace.” A visit to the palace indicated that a combined team of heavily armed security personnel from the State Security Service, Police, Civil defence and Army have taken over the palace shortly after the announcement of the removal of the emir. Daily Trust also gathered that the governor of Kano State, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje OFR, is set to name a new emir for Kano emirate after deposing Muhammadu Sansui II. Daily Trust reliably gathered that the governor will announce the new emir before the close of work today. Another source close to the government confided in Daily Trust that the present District Head of Nassarawa, Alhaji Nasiru Ado Bayero may likely be appointed the new emir of Kano state. Sanusi ll was dethroned on Monday over alleged disrespect to the office of the governor and other government agencies. The Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji, said the removal was with immediate effect. He said the emir’s action violated the part 3 section A-E of Kano state law, hence the removal. He said the removal was in line with consultation with relevant stakeholders. READ: Liveblog: Gov Ganduje dethrones Emir Sanusi II He said a new emir would be announced in due course. He urged Kano people to remain calm and go about their normal businesses. Earlier in the day, there was pandemonium at the Kano State House of Assembly on Monday over the lingering crisis between the state government and the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi ll. Trouble started few minutes when the Chairman, House Standing Committee on Public Complaints and Petitions, Alhaji Hamza Ibrahim Ci-Dari, raised an observation regarding the the two petitions against the emir. The House received two petitions against the Emir last week. Immediately the chairman raised the issue, he was shut down by some members of the House, particularly members of the opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, who insisted that it is against the rule of the House to raise an observation during plenary on a petition that is before a committee, which has not submitted its report. Members of the APC and PDP engaged in a free-for-all fight with the aim of taking over the control of the Mace, the symbol of authority of the parliament. It took the intervention of the Sergeant at Arms and security operatives to rescue the mace from the lawmakers. The Speaker of the House, Alhaji Abdulaziz Garba Gafasa announced the postponement of the session for 30 minutes. Daily Trust observed presence of heavily armed security operatives at the assembly complex, government house and Emir’s palace. Dethroned Emir Sanusi to be flown out of Kano Ado Bayero’s sons visit Emir Sanusi More troubles for Emir Sanusi