There was pandemonium and confusion at Kasuwar Barci Market on Wednesday when a building in the area collapsed, killing a teenager instantly and injuring few others. The incident happened around 3:40pm when the teenager and his friends were busy removing iron rods and electric wares from the demolished shops at the market. Daily Trust gathered that two other teenagers were trapped under the collapsed building as people nearby tried to rescue them. “A teenager’s two legs have been damaged and one other killed after a building collapsed on him and others,” ‎ a trader, who simply identified himself as Shehu, told Daily Trust. He said the victims were taken part in the demolition of the market when the shop collapsed on them. He said there was no equipment to help rescue the victims as people resulted to use of hands only. A witness, Malam Idris, said the teenager whose legs were damaged was his neighbour at Kwanar Maishayi community. He said the boy’s name was ‘Daddy’, noting that he has been rushed to a nearby hospital. “Yes, a teenager was killed while the other teenager called  Daddy who happens to be my neighbour‎ loses his two legs and was rushed to hospital,” he said. Our reporter, who was at the scene, observed the presence of policemen at the market. When contacted, the Executive Secretary, Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency (KASEMA), Hajiya Maimunat Abubakar, said she has already informed the Head of Fire Service to rush to the scene to assist in rescue operat‎ion. It could be recalled that the state government ordered the demolition of the market after the expiration of the quit notice given to the traders by the Kaduna Urban Planning and Development Agency (KAPSUDA) days ago. The traders decided to demolish their shops to enable them removed doors, iron rods, and roofing zincs, among others important valuables, which was what the victims were doing when the building fell on down. KASUPDA begins demolition of Kasuwar Barci How smoke killed two Nigeriens in Kaduna Curfew in Kaduna, govt urges calm