Tension exists in Naraguta Community of Jos North Local Government Area of Plateau State following demolition of more than fifty houses in the area. Daily Trust reports that the demolition exercise which began in the early morning of Saturday manifested following a land dispute between University of Jos and the embattled community. This paper had on February 22, reported how skirmishes claimed the life of a resident of the area when the institution attempted to dig a trench to demarcate the school from the community. Speaking on the demolition, the traditional ruler of the area, Engineer Muhammad Bello, during a press briefing held Sunday at his Naraguta palace described the incident “as an outright violation of human right, unjust, inhuman, illegitimate and brutality by security agencies under the instructions of University of Jos.” He narrated that “on Saturday morning, we woke up only to realise a heavy security presence with excavators brought by University of Jos, which not only forcefully ejected our people but also demolished not fewer than 50 houses without prior notice. “The dastardly incident happened despite an advisory committee set up by the management committee Chairman of Jos North, which also includes representatives of people of Naraguta, Anaguta and University of Jos, but to our greatest dismay, the University went ahead to embark on the demolition of houses,” he said. He added that the exercise was preceded by forceful breaking into residents’ houses and molestation of youth and women, some of whom were injured and arrested by security operatives. The paramount ruler however stated that “As peace loving community, we have been following all the necessary ways to resolve the issue of the land dispute between some of the community members and the authority of the institution amicably.” Contacted on the development, the University’s Public Relation Officer, Mr. Abdullahi Abdullahi said, “I cannot respond on anything officially because I’m on leave due to a medical condition. I’m due to resume next month.” Both the university and residents of the community are claiming ownership of the land.  Police debunk burning of Church, students' hostel in Jos Land dispute: Community appeals for Lalong's intervention Tension in Jos as security operatives kill man