The Ministry of Works and Housing has revealed that the federal government through the Debt Management Office (DMO) will soon issue a third sovereign Sukuk of up to N150 billion to finance 44 ongoing road projects in the country. The Minister of State Works and Housing, Engr. Abubakar D. Aliyu disclosed this yesterday in Abuja at the second edition of the National Policy and Development Summit held in Abuja yesterday. Aliyu disclosed that the ministry is intervening in tertiary institutions internal road network access across the country through the reconstruction of internal roads in 44 tertiary institutions across the country. “This forms part of the over 500 road and bridge projects currently being undertaken by the ministry as its contribution to infrastructure provision in the country” “You would recall that several figures are out there on the housing deficit statistics in Nigeria, ranging from 17-22million. The ministry on its part is concerned about mitigating the deficit and ensuring that Nigerians have access to affordable, conducive, and hygienic housing wherever they reside”. Aliyu also noted that the ongoing national housing programme has compelted 2500 units of in 34 states of the federation. While welcoming guests, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Policy Development and Analysis, Ibrahim Bapetel Hassan said that the 2020 NPOD Summit with the theme Actualizing the Change Agenda: Prospects and anticipated Challenges, was aimed to collect critical views of stakeholders, and sieved them into an advisory for the President. Hassan said that one of the remarkable achievements of the summit so far, “is as a fall out of last year’s summit we were able to start a Monthly Policy Dialogue session around Nigeria.  This unique experience afforded us a firsthand experience about the interface between governance and policy implementation at the sub-regional, state and local government levels all geared towards a seamless delivery of the Next Level Agenda”. He said the summit will continue to interrogate strategies and prospects of the country’s development as a nation “in the context of the Change Agenda” and would rely on the strength of the participants to identify the challenges that may likely affect the actualisation of the Next Level Agenda as well as generate inputs that will assist government to stay focused in the next four years. “It is our distinct belief that the 2nd National Policy Development Summit will assist in proffering solutions that will enable government deliver the Next Level Agenda through impactful policies; especially President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive to lead 100 million Nigerians out of poverty within the next ten years” he said.  Sukuk projects and President Buhari DMO inspects roads financed by Sukuk FG injects N100bn Sukuk proceeds into 25 road projects