One week after the Supreme Court reserved ruling in the application for the review of the judgement which disqualified the governorship and other candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara State in the 2019 general elections, there is relative calm in the state. The apex court had on March 17 reserved judgement in the application filed by a faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led by a former governor of the state, Abdulaziz Yari. Our correspondent reports that there was no anxiety as the situation remained calm with normal activities continuing in the state. At many places in Gusau, the state capital, residents went about their normal businesses. Discussions on the matter, however, kept dominating public places. Findings by Daily Trust revealed that some people were not even aware of the move to review the judgement. Even among politicians who might be directly affected by the outcome of the judgement review, there seemed no anxiety among them. Many however are expressing no confidence in the process. “I heard that the country’s apex court would review the judgement it delivered on APC’s primary election in the state. Nothing will change. Will the Supreme Court deliver a verdict and then change it later? In a complex country like Nigeria, what does this signify? Politicians will really take advantage of that,” a resident Ali Abubakar, said. However, some APC and PDP staunch loyalists who spoke to Daily Trust expressed confidence that the review of the judgement would turn out in their favour. Vice chairman of the APC Alhaji Sani Gwamna Mayanchi said the first step to their victory at the apex court was its decision to accept to review the judgement. He said they are hopeful that the apex court would restore their mandates, adding that their case was different from those of Bayelsa and Imo states. However, the publicity secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party in the state, Alhaji Farouk Ahmad, said he would not speak on the matter now. UPDATED: Zamfara governorship review: Supreme Court reserves ruling Anxiety in Imo, Zamfara as S/Court hears gov’ship applications today APC, PDP trade words over Zamfara gov’ship review case