The ActionAid Nigeria (AAN) has urged the Federal Government to lockdown the country, except those on essential services for the next 14 days to fast-track the efforts of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on Control of coronavirus (Covid-19) in combating the spread of the virus. The AAN Country Director, Ene Obi, in a statement in Abuja, commended some of the steps taken by the PTF on the control of Covid-19 thus far, but that more needed to be done quickly and promptly. “With the cases of infected persons increasing from three to 36 within a week, Nigeria needs to be ready for the worst-case scenario. “Unfortunately, the concept of social distancing and self-isolation remains a mirage to many Nigerians. The average Nigerian, particularly those offline and at the grassroot are still ignorant and lack the basic safeguarding information on symptoms and prevention of the spread of the virus. “As an organisation, we are concerned that no proactive steps are being taken at the community levels and the average woman in the market is still unaware that the virus is so contagious that one infected person with high exposure can infect up to 2.5m persons within five days as stated by the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire during a press conference on Monday 23rd March, 2020,” Obi said. She expressed worry that Nigeria’s level of preparedness to respond to COVID-19 is low and this further buttress the need to re-prioritise Nigeria’s budgetary provisions by investing more in healthcare facilities. According to her, Nigeria’s porous borders make her susceptible to outbreaks and it is quite unfortunate that the nation still have public gathering across the nation with many Nigerians still going about their businesses in packed public transport. “ActionAid Nigeria, therefore, calls on the federal government to open up emergency support for hospitals already coping with the treatment and bring on board the multitude of doctors (including other health workers) that are unemployed and recall retired doctors, and not wait till the crisis is full blown. “State governments to swiftly act by increasing the awareness on the proactive measures to prevent the spread of the virus at the grassroot level. “National Orientation Agency and Ministry of Information to intensify public awareness to sensitize the masses by translating preventive guidelines to major Nigerian languages, especially on radio and other traditional means of communication,” she added. Coronavirus: Nigeria shuts all borders, suspends FEC meeting COVID-19: As Nigeria slowly moves into lockdown N/west, N/central close schools, Lagos bans religious gatherings