Aero Contractors yesterday said that it disinfects its aircraft before and after every flight to safeguard its passengers against the ravaging COVID-19 infection. The airline spoke in response to the recent case involving the son of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, both of whom were on the same Aero flight from Lagos. The airline disclosed that the son of the former vice president wore a face mask throughout the flight and had limited contact in the flight with other passengers and crew. In a statement yesterday, Aero said, “We wish to state that the past three weeks the management of the domestic terminal of the Murtala Mohammed Airport, Lagos known as MMA2, adopted some strict measures to check every passenger that is processed from the terminal and these include the same use of sanitizer and temperature checks and anyone whose temperature rises above is referred to the Port Health Authority. “On our own we have adopted safe measures to protect our passengers. We disinfect our aircraft before and after every flight, we also ensure that our customers are given hand sanitizer prior to boarding and check their temperature. These steps are measures we have taken in accordance with international standards.” The airline also said it is cooperating with relevant authorities towards taking necessary measures with other passengers on the mentioned flight. Governor Mohammed who on Monday said he had contact with Atiku’s son had also tested positive. “The result of six initial tests carried out by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on his Excellency, Senator Bala Mohammed, his family and aides that accompanied him to Lagos is out,” Mohammed’s media aide Mukhtar Gidado said in a statement on Tuesday. “Of the six tests, one sample was confirmed positive of Covid-19. The positive result happened to be that of His Excellency, the Governor of Bauchi State.” Gidado disclosed that Mohammed is now quarantined while his doctors and officials from NCDC are in charge of his treatment. Speaking on a radio programme yesterday, the Chief of Staff to the governor, Malam Ladan Salihu said he was one of the six people that were tested for the COVID-19. “We are all fine and we believe that the governor who tested positive will be fine,” he said. Also, an aide to one of the governors in the North West told the Daily Trust last night that indeed their governor had met with some prominent people who tested positive. “The physicians of the governor are discussing the matter and of course the right thing will be done when the need arises,” he said. Airlines closure is choking passengers Air fares go up, passengers protest page 26  AVIATION