A bill seeking to amend the Electoral Act to empower INEC to organise mandatory election debates for all candidates to the office of president, vice president, governor and deputy yesterday scaled through second reading at the Senate. The proposed legislation was sponsored by Senator Abdulfatai Buhari (APC, Oyo North), who said, if passed, the bill would strengthen Nigeria’s democracy and bring it in conformity with the practice of other renowned democracies of the world. “This Election Debates Bill, if passed into law, shall be used to sample the candidates’ knowledge on a wide range of issues, like a detailed analysis of how they intend to drive the economy, foreign, health and education policies among others,” he said. Senate President Ahmad Lawan cautioned against allowing INEC to conduct the debate. He said INEC being a government body, the responsibility to organise election debate would probably cause some difficulties especially for people in the opposition to participate in it. Earlier, senators during debate backed the proposed legislation, saying it would give voters the opportunity to X-ray candidates and make their judgment about them. Senator Ibrahim Oloriegbe (APC, Kwara Central) said, “When aspirants are tested through series of debates, their employers, which are the electorate, would be able to assess their capability for the job they are applying for.” Senator Solomon Adeola (APC, Lagos West), said the bill would give Nigerians a clue about aspirants and their capabilities to govern the country. Danjuma Goje (APC, Gombe Central) stated that an independent body, not INEC, should conduct the debate. He said if INEC assigned marks and announced winners of the debate, it might affect candidates’ chances during elections. Barau Jibrin (APC, Kano North) said though debate served as platform to showcase aspirants’ capabilities, it should be made optional, while Matthew Urhoghide (PDP, Edo South) said it should carry some elements of compulsion. The bill, after scaling second reading, was referred to the Senate Committee on INEC to report back in four weeks. Again, Senate rushes to amend Electoral Act Senate amends electoral act, collated results to be electronically transmitted Senate proposes 20-yr jail term for electoral offenders