Abuchi Vincent Iloanya, the Managing Director of Abutex Food Equipment company is not your run-of-the-mill Igbo businessman into export and import business. He is a visionary businessman who understands that the world of business is evolving and the next marketplace will shift from the conventional to the digital. In his own sector of industrial kitchen equipment business, he applied ICT and the social media to stay ahead of the competition, to be a leader. “My business expanded long time ago using Jiji and OLX for marketing tools. But it expanded and blew the moment I started using Instagram. Instagram has been a blessing to me I won’t lie. Instagram brought my business out there and connected me to so many big people in the society. Celebrities and politicians all patronize me, all thanks to my mentor, Mark Zuckerberg,” he said in a recent interview. He added that without the social media he wouldn’t have come this far in the four years of establishing his company. He also said he owes a debt of gratitude to  the owner of Facebook and Instagram, saying he’s his mentor and has greatly impacted his life. “I won’t be where I am today if not for him. Mark Zuckerberg gave me the biggest platform to showcase my business and connects me to a lot of customers, that alone is an inspiration and I’m hoping to have a glimpse of him someday,” he added. Abuchi Iloanya started Abutex Food Equipment company four years ago after serving apprenticeship of six years under a master, who taught him the rudiments of the business. When he graduated he took the business a step further by applying digital tools to market his products. Right now, he is the number one supplier to many big bakeries, restaurants and supermarkets. Abuchi Vincent Iloanya, the Managing Director of Abutex Food Equipment company was born in Onitsha, Anambra State, Nigeria on March 11, 1992. He is a native of Awkuzu in Oyi Local Goverment Area of Anambra State. His company, Abutex Food Equipment company is Nigeria’s leading company on industrial kitchen equipment, with headquarters in Alaba International Market and an ultra modern showroom in Lekki Phase 1, all in Lagos. Growing business via social media marketing Otedola exits Forte Oil, shifts attention to Geregu Power Would you d.e.l.e.t.e your social media account to save your relationship?