The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) 2019 Election Review Committee at the weekend met with former military president retired General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, to solicit his support. The team, which was led by the Governor of Bauchi State Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, thanked the former military leader for granting them audience. The meeting was held at IBB’s Minna hilltop residence and had in attendance, former governors Sule Lamido of Jigawa, Babangida Aliyu of Niger, former Minister of Special Duties and Chairman PDP Ministers Forum Tanimu Turaki, DanMasanin Gwandu (SAN) among others. Speaking with journalists shortly after the meeting, Governor Bala said the visit was to solicit the former head of state’s support on the committee’s assigned responsibilities, adding that they were warmly received by him. The chairman of the committee, however, expressed confidence that with the victory of the PDP in the just concluded gubernatorial election in Edo, similar development would be recorded in the Ondo state edition.  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) 2019 Election Review Committee at the weekend met with former military president retired General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, to solicit his support. The team, which was led by the Governor of Bauchi State Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, thanked the former military leader for granting them audience. The meeting was held at IBB’s Minna hilltop residence and had in attendance, former governors Sule Lamido of Jigawa, Babangida Aliyu of Niger, former Minister of Special Duties and Chairman PDP Ministers Forum Tanimu Turaki, DanMasanin Gwandu (SAN) among others. Speaking with journalists shortly after the meeting, Governor Bala said the visit was to solicit the former head of state’s support on the committee’s assigned responsibilities, adding that they were warmly received by him. The chairman of the committee, however, expressed confidence that with the victory of the PDP in the just concluded gubernatorial election in Edo, similar development would be recorded in the Ondo state edition. 