The Federal Government has said that it cannot bear the cost of COVID-19 test for incoming international passengers as it will be too much a burden on the nation’s resources. The National Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Dr. Sani Aliyu, said this on Thursday in Abuja at the 66th joint national briefing of the committee. According to him, the number of passengers coming into the country was above 5,000 and it would be a huge burden for the federal government to take up the financial burden of their tests for COVID-19. He also announced that the 72 hours COVID-19 test result for the incoming passengers had been extended to 120 hours in line with the new policy across the country. “The post arrival test was to be carried out on day seven after arrival and all passengers must have uploaded all necessary COVID-19 test results and generate a code that would be presented at the Nigeria airports. “Children below 10 years and diplomats were exempted from testing after arrival but must upload negative PCR COVID-19 test result and QR Code before boarding,” Aliyu said. Speaking on the reported fake COVID-19 test results being presented by some passengers, Aliyu said that 13 countries had discrepancy in COVID-19 test result, with nine having a high number. He also advised school management not to do test for returning students but instead focus on monitoring and careful observation for students with all non-pharmaceutical measures in put in place. He said that it was unnecessary burden on parents as the result was as good as when it was done because anyone could contact COVID-19 after the test if proper non pharmaceutical measures were not observed. Meanwhile, the Director General of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Agency (NCAA), Captain Musa Nuhu said all issues with online registration have been resolved. He therefore urged the passengers to do most of the online activities, prior to their departure to avoid delay after arriving the airports in Nigeria. The Federal Government has said that it cannot bear the cost of COVID-19 test for incoming international passengers as it will be too much a burden on the nation’s resources. The National Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Dr. Sani Aliyu, said this on Thursday in Abuja at the 66th joint national briefing of the committee. According to him, the number of passengers coming into the country was above 5,000 and it would be a huge burden for the federal government to take up the financial burden of their tests for COVID-19. He also announced that the 72 hours COVID-19 test result for the incoming passengers had been extended to 120 hours in line with the new policy across the country. “The post arrival test was to be carried out on day seven after arrival and all passengers must have uploaded all necessary COVID-19 test results and generate a code that would be presented at the Nigeria airports. “Children below 10 years and diplomats were exempted from testing after arrival but must upload negative PCR COVID-19 test result and QR Code before boarding,” Aliyu said. Speaking on the reported fake COVID-19 test results being presented by some passengers, Aliyu said that 13 countries had discrepancy in COVID-19 test result, with nine having a high number. He also advised school management not to do test for returning students but instead focus on monitoring and careful observation for students with all non-pharmaceutical measures in put in place. He said that it was unnecessary burden on parents as the result was as good as when it was done because anyone could contact COVID-19 after the test if proper non pharmaceutical measures were not observed. Meanwhile, the Director General of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Agency (NCAA), Captain Musa Nuhu said all issues with online registration have been resolved. He therefore urged the passengers to do most of the online activities, prior to their departure to avoid delay after arriving the airports in Nigeria.