Detectives from the Ejigbo police station, Lagos, have arrested an 18-year-old man, Pelumioluwatobi Ola, for allegedly luring his teenage girlfriend (names withheld) to a hotel where he was said to have drugged and raped her. The police said Ola lured the girl out on the pretence he wanted her to accompany him on an errand for his father. The suspect was said to have taken the girl to the undisclosed hotel with words that he was only waiting there for his father’s friend from whom he wanted to collect some money. He then allegedly added sleeping pills to a bottle of drink he ordered for her and raped her. “The suspect resides at Uriel Adegbenro Street, Egan, Igando, Lagos, while the girl resides at the Ilepo area of Ejigbo. “The suspect told the girl that the money he intended to collect was for the installation of a pre-paid meter. After drugging her, he took her into a room he had paid for in the hotel. Inside the room, the suspect undressed the girl and raped her,” a policeman, who claimed to be involved in the arrest of the suspect told our correspondent. According to the policeman, when the girl realised she had been raped when she woke up, she reported the matter at the Ejigbo Police Division and the Divisional Police Officer, Chief Superintendent Olabisi Okuwobi, ordered the arrest of the suspect. Several calls made to the Lagos State Police Command Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi on Monday afternoon for his comments on the matter were not successful as he was said to be attending the Principal Staff Officers meeting at the Command Headquarters, Ikeja.  Detectives from the Ejigbo police station, Lagos, have arrested an 18-year-old man, Pelumioluwatobi Ola, for allegedly luring his teenage girlfriend (names withheld) to a hotel where he was said to have drugged and raped her. The police said Ola lured the girl out on the pretence he wanted her to accompany him on an errand for his father. The suspect was said to have taken the girl to the undisclosed hotel with words that he was only waiting there for his father’s friend from whom he wanted to collect some money. He then allegedly added sleeping pills to a bottle of drink he ordered for her and raped her. “The suspect resides at Uriel Adegbenro Street, Egan, Igando, Lagos, while the girl resides at the Ilepo area of Ejigbo. “The suspect told the girl that the money he intended to collect was for the installation of a pre-paid meter. After drugging her, he took her into a room he had paid for in the hotel. Inside the room, the suspect undressed the girl and raped her,” a policeman, who claimed to be involved in the arrest of the suspect told our correspondent. According to the policeman, when the girl realised she had been raped when she woke up, she reported the matter at the Ejigbo Police Division and the Divisional Police Officer, Chief Superintendent Olabisi Okuwobi, ordered the arrest of the suspect. Several calls made to the Lagos State Police Command Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi on Monday afternoon for his comments on the matter were not successful as he was said to be attending the Principal Staff Officers meeting at the Command Headquarters, Ikeja. 