A Nigerian security risk management organisation, Halogen Group, has been voted Nigeria’s Outstanding Contract Security Company for the third year in a row In an international webinar marking the 2020 edition of the Nigeria Outstanding Security Performance Awards (OSPAs), Halogen Group emerged the nation’s top security risk management company in a keenly contested selection process. OSPAs is a globally recognised independent security award, which rewards outstanding performance in the security sector in the United Kingdom (UK), United States of America (USA), and other parts of the world. According to organizers of the award, which was coordinated in partnership with SECUREX West Africa; the awards recognise exceptional industry talent and innovation in different categories. This year marks the third in a row that Academy Halogen would win the top security training honors. The Group Managing Director, Halogen Group, Mr. Wale Olaoye described the award as a vindication of the company’s commitment to global best practice, an uncompromising commitment to excellence and its focused investment in technology and capacity building.  A Nigerian security risk management organisation, Halogen Group, has been voted Nigeria’s Outstanding Contract Security Company for the third year in a row In an international webinar marking the 2020 edition of the Nigeria Outstanding Security Performance Awards (OSPAs), Halogen Group emerged the nation’s top security risk management company in a keenly contested selection process. OSPAs is a globally recognised independent security award, which rewards outstanding performance in the security sector in the United Kingdom (UK), United States of America (USA), and other parts of the world. According to organizers of the award, which was coordinated in partnership with SECUREX West Africa; the awards recognise exceptional industry talent and innovation in different categories. This year marks the third in a row that Academy Halogen would win the top security training honors. The Group Managing Director, Halogen Group, Mr. Wale Olaoye described the award as a vindication of the company’s commitment to global best practice, an uncompromising commitment to excellence and its focused investment in technology and capacity building. 