The people of Edo state  are voting to elect a governor on Saturday. The election has generated much attention, locally and internationally, because of the key players in the election. Following this, the electioneering campaign generated tension and violence in the state. Pundits are of the view that the election is between candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Osagie Ize-lyamu and that of People’s Democratic Party, governor Godwin Obaseki. According to them, the election is important because of the fight between governor Obaseki and former national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomole, who also wants to make a point that he is still a king maker in the state polity. Others argue that the election is also the fight to liberate the state from the shackle of godfatherism. Analysts are also of the opinion that the election is a fight between political elites and party leaders who believe that the governor had abandoned the usual norm of settling party members and the governor who doesn’t believe in settling party’s leaders. According to them, the election is also important because of the candidates who had  changed political parties. In 2016 governorship election, governor Obaseki was the candidate of the APC while Ize-lyamu was the candidate of the PDP but in 2020, governor Obaseki became the candidate of the PDP while Ize-lyamu is now the candidate of the APC. And as it is, if Obaseki wins the election, the influence of Oshiomhole as king maker will automatically wane in the state and as such increase the attention and importance give to the election. However, Edo election is given much attention because it is the first major election INEC will conduct under COVID-19, couple with the fact that previous elections have not been marred with violence. So, all eyes are on INEC, whether it will conduct a credible election or not. The people of Edo state  are voting to elect a governor on Saturday. The election has generated much attention, locally and internationally, because of the key players in the election. Following this, the electioneering campaign generated tension and violence in the state. Pundits are of the view that the election is between candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Osagie Ize-lyamu and that of People’s Democratic Party, governor Godwin Obaseki. According to them, the election is important because of the fight between governor Obaseki and former national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomole, who also wants to make a point that he is still a king maker in the state polity. Others argue that the election is also the fight to liberate the state from the shackle of godfatherism. Analysts are also of the opinion that the election is a fight between political elites and party leaders who believe that the governor had abandoned the usual norm of settling party members and the governor who doesn’t believe in settling party’s leaders. According to them, the election is also important because of the candidates who had  changed political parties. In 2016 governorship election, governor Obaseki was the candidate of the APC while Ize-lyamu was the candidate of the PDP but in 2020, governor Obaseki became the candidate of the PDP while Ize-lyamu is now the candidate of the APC. And as it is, if Obaseki wins the election, the influence of Oshiomhole as king maker will automatically wane in the state and as such increase the attention and importance give to the election. However, Edo election is given much attention because it is the first major election INEC will conduct under COVID-19, couple with the fact that previous elections have not been marred with violence. So, all eyes are on INEC, whether it will conduct a credible election or not.