A Federal High Court in Abuja has dismissed the suit filed by the Reformed Advancement Party (RAP), challenging the candidacy of Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State. Justice Okon Abang, on Tuesday, dismissed the suit following an application for withdrawal of the suit by the RAP. Justice Abang also awarded the sum of N500, 000 in favour of Uzodimma, the office of the governor and INEC after their lawyers’ M.A. Aguma, Idris Yakubu and Hassan Umar (SAN demanded for N8m and N5m respectively. RAP’s governorship candidate, Kingdom Okere Esq had sought constitutional interpretation to Section 177(c) of the Nigerian Constitutional, 1999 on whether Uzodimma lawfully participated and was sponsored by the APC for the 2019 governorship election given the Supreme Court’s judgment in appeal SC/384/2019, which declared Uche Nwosu Nwosu the party’s candidate in the election. Meanwhile, in a statement on Tuesday, Okere said he decided to withdraw the suit because of the fresh application before the Supreme Court by former governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha with number SC/1384/2019. Ihedioha is asking the apex court to interpret its January decision which upheld the election of Uche Nwosu as the duly nominated governorship candidate of the APC in Imo State. A Federal High Court in Abuja has dismissed the suit filed by the Reformed Advancement Party (RAP), challenging the candidacy of Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State. Justice Okon Abang, on Tuesday, dismissed the suit following an application for withdrawal of the suit by the RAP. Justice Abang also awarded the sum of N500, 000 in favour of Uzodimma, the office of the governor and INEC after their lawyers’ M.A. Aguma, Idris Yakubu and Hassan Umar (SAN demanded for N8m and N5m respectively. RAP’s governorship candidate, Kingdom Okere Esq had sought constitutional interpretation to Section 177(c) of the Nigerian Constitutional, 1999 on whether Uzodimma lawfully participated and was sponsored by the APC for the 2019 governorship election given the Supreme Court’s judgment in appeal SC/384/2019, which declared Uche Nwosu Nwosu the party’s candidate in the election. Meanwhile, in a statement on Tuesday, Okere said he decided to withdraw the suit because of the fresh application before the Supreme Court by former governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha with number SC/1384/2019. Ihedioha is asking the apex court to interpret its January decision which upheld the election of Uche Nwosu as the duly nominated governorship candidate of the APC in Imo State.