The Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc, (NAHCO Plc) has acquired another set of Ground Support Equipment (GSE) valued at N500 million. This is part of the N3.6 billion equipment proposed in 2019 for injection into the company to enhance service delivery, the ground handling firm said. NAHCO reports N1.34bn profit, pays N487m dividend NAHCO boss tasks airlines on cargo operations diversification The latest delivery is the first of two sets being expected before the end of the first quarter of 2020. NAHCO also said it has completed the renovation of the cargo complex, which houses the airlines, cargo agents, banks and other clients. Group Managing Director/CEO, Adetokunbo Fagbemi, in a statement, said the COVID-19 pandemic has slowed down its investment plan. She, however, restated that the company would continue to strive for excellence at all times. “This is just part of the equipment being expected, some more will be delivered in the coming days. “The era of inadequate equipment is sure to be over soon.” She also pointed out that NAHCO’s five-year transformation plan is right on course, though with a significant slowdown as a result of the closure of the airports due to COVID-19. The Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc, (NAHCO Plc) has acquired another set of Ground Support Equipment (GSE) valued at N500 million. This is part of the N3.6 billion equipment proposed in 2019 for injection into the company to enhance service delivery, the ground handling firm said. NAHCO reports N1.34bn profit, pays N487m dividend NAHCO boss tasks airlines on cargo operations diversification The latest delivery is the first of two sets being expected before the end of the first quarter of 2020. NAHCO also said it has completed the renovation of the cargo complex, which houses the airlines, cargo agents, banks and other clients. Group Managing Director/CEO, Adetokunbo Fagbemi, in a statement, said the COVID-19 pandemic has slowed down its investment plan. She, however, restated that the company would continue to strive for excellence at all times. “This is just part of the equipment being expected, some more will be delivered in the coming days. “The era of inadequate equipment is sure to be over soon.” She also pointed out that NAHCO’s five-year transformation plan is right on course, though with a significant slowdown as a result of the closure of the airports due to COVID-19.