Tech giant, Google on Tuesday said it plans to help 525,000 businesses and teachers recover from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. It will support 500,000 Small and Medium Businesses (SMBs) and 25,000 teachers through a partnership with the Nigerian Ministry of Youth and Sports Development will provide support for youth-owned SMBs to help them acquire marketable skills through certification, and training programmes. Google and Apple’s COVID-19 notification technology no ‘secret’ Google for Nonprofits launched in Nigeria Google Nigeria Country Director, Juliet Ehimuan, said Google has set up a digital hub that will provide free tools and resources to businesses and individuals. She said the 500,000 businesses will receive help getting online or improving their digital presence through ‘Google My Business’ (GMB) to help them connect with millions of users monthly. “Small businesses have been hardest hit during this period. Many of them have had to figure out quickly how to pivot their operations to a ‘digital-first’ approach. “Yet, there remains a gap between those who can access these online opportunities and those who can’t. “That’s the gap we want to bridge with these initiatives.” Google is also giving a $250,000 grant to organizations developing programmes and tools to boost literacy for children in low income Nigerian schools. It will also provide job seekers with $750,000 in IT support scholarships across Africa. The Minister for Youth and Sport, Sunday Dare, assured that the Ministry is focused on creating an enabling environment that promotes youth and social development. Tech giant, Google on Tuesday said it plans to help 525,000 businesses and teachers recover from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. It will support 500,000 Small and Medium Businesses (SMBs) and 25,000 teachers through a partnership with the Nigerian Ministry of Youth and Sports Development will provide support for youth-owned SMBs to help them acquire marketable skills through certification, and training programmes. Google and Apple’s COVID-19 notification technology no ‘secret’ Google for Nonprofits launched in Nigeria Google Nigeria Country Director, Juliet Ehimuan, said Google has set up a digital hub that will provide free tools and resources to businesses and individuals. She said the 500,000 businesses will receive help getting online or improving their digital presence through ‘Google My Business’ (GMB) to help them connect with millions of users monthly. “Small businesses have been hardest hit during this period. Many of them have had to figure out quickly how to pivot their operations to a ‘digital-first’ approach. “Yet, there remains a gap between those who can access these online opportunities and those who can’t. “That’s the gap we want to bridge with these initiatives.” Google is also giving a $250,000 grant to organizations developing programmes and tools to boost literacy for children in low income Nigerian schools. It will also provide job seekers with $750,000 in IT support scholarships across Africa. The Minister for Youth and Sport, Sunday Dare, assured that the Ministry is focused on creating an enabling environment that promotes youth and social development.