A range of influential names in Nigerian politics, from senators to governors and party leaders, have praised voting in Edo state, in which incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki won over Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Former Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, says the re-election of Governor Godwin Obaseki represented the determination of Edo people to decide who governs the state. “The result of the Edo election represents the true wish of the people who stood firmly behind their Governor against power mongers who were determined to foist their choice on the people. It represents the will of the people to vote in free, fair, credible and peaceful elections,” he said. Demilitarized election Saraki also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for keeping the military out of the election. “We are happy that throughout this election we did not see the military brutalizing the people or security officials supervising the snatching of ballot boxes and vandalisation of  votes. Thus, the military and other security agencies deserve commendation for this successful polls. “Also, we saw how the INEC officials maturely handled the complaints of the APC agent who sought to create confusion at the state collation centre when the Orihomwon Local Government result was about to be declared. The INEC and its officials deserve to be commended for their neutrality in this election. “We can see that the result represents realistic figures from one local government area to the other. No case of outlandish figures being reeled out. That is also a sign of some level of credibility in the process. Fintiri congratulates Obaseki Adamawa Governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri has described Obaseki’s win as a well deserved victory accepted across the state adding that the election is indeed a true reflection of the wishes of people of Edo state. Ahmadu Fintiri who is the Vice Chairman of PDP National campaign committee, urged Obaseki and the PDP to extend a hand of fellowship to the opposition and dedicate himself to reuniting the people. “The path is now clear for focused piloting of the states affairs towards doing more for the people of Edo in your last term as Governor”. He stated. He noted that the people of Edo have made their vote count and encouraged Obaseki to write his name in gold as one who changed the politics of Edo state. Tambuwal congratulates Obaseki Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for ensuring free and fair election devoid of violence in Edo state. “As the election was proceeding apace yesterday, I took a bold step to commend Mr President over his statesmanship. Some may have taken my observations with a pinch of salt. ” But as an incurable Democrat what I foresaw with the benefit of quality information filtering out of the theater of election in the legendary state, I became convinced that Nigeria is no longer a lonely crowd. And, more convincingly, that our shepherd has embraced the age-long norm of cooperation which has served some successful democracies across the free world well long before now,” he said The Governor added that “I once again doff my hat for the President Muhammadu Buhari for allowing the conduct of the election to be free, fair and devoid of violence. Buhari shows credible election is possible- Oyegun Former Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, John Oyegun said that the with credible Edo governorship election, president Muhammadu Buhari, has shown that credible election is possible in Nigeria. He commended president Muhammadu Buhari for conducting a free and fair election. He said with the conduct of Independent National Electoral Commission, and security agents during the election, it shows that no order was given to them. He however commended president Buhari, Edo People and all those who contributed to making the election free, fair peaceful and credible. ” I don’t have much to say but to thank God that no life was lost during the election” He noted that the Edo APC will bounce back in subsequent election as it has learnt lesson from past mistakes. PDP reps greet Obaseki win The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Caucus in the House of Representatives has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki on his victory at the Governorship election in Edo State held on Saturday. The Caucus in a statement by its leader, Kingsley Chinda (PDP,Rivers) said Governor Obaseki’s victory is a reflection of the people’s will to elect a credible leader that will serve their interest not the interests of a few. “This is a sign that Nigerians and especially the people of Edo state have woken up to the fact that their votes must count and say no to god-fatherism politics in Nigeria “Though the election witnessed the display of security operatives laying siege on Governors of the peoples Democratic Party, it did not deter or distract voters from voting a leader that will pilot the affairs of the state in the next four years ” I am happy that citizens are beginning to wake up to understand that the issue of god-fatherism must be put to an end in a bid to pave room for transparent, credible and a democratic society. “We also Congratulate Ize Iyamu for adding value to democracy and advise him to accept the result in good faith and join hands with his Benin brother Gov. Obaseki to provide quality service to the people of Edo State . Akwa Ibom governor salutes Obaseki The Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state on his re-election for a second term in office on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). “Last year, the good people of Akwa Ibom State rose in unison and said no to godfatherism and the much touted Federal might, declaring their fidelity to the supremacy of our ONLY GOD in the Affairs of man. “Today, our brothers and sisters in Edo State have replicated the same wholesome faith and belief in God over the boastful exuberance of ordinary mortals by voting to return a leader who best represents their values and ethos; a doer and not a talker. “On behalf of the Government and the good people of Akwa Ibom State, I join our brethren in Edo to congratulate our brother, His Excellency, Governor Godwin Obaseki for securing the trust and faith of the good people of Edo State to superintend over the affairs of the State for another four years. “As I have always said, a good job delivered well, means more job to be done. I have no doubt that you will step up to the plate and deliver big time for the Edo people. Let me also congratulate our great party, the PDP and of course, the INEC for a job well- done!” he stated. A range of influential names in Nigerian politics, from senators to governors and party leaders, have praised voting in Edo state, in which incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki won over Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Former Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, says the re-election of Governor Godwin Obaseki represented the determination of Edo people to decide who governs the state. “The result of the Edo election represents the true wish of the people who stood firmly behind their Governor against power mongers who were determined to foist their choice on the people. It represents the will of the people to vote in free, fair, credible and peaceful elections,” he said. Demilitarized election Saraki also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for keeping the military out of the election. “We are happy that throughout this election we did not see the military brutalizing the people or security officials supervising the snatching of ballot boxes and vandalisation of  votes. Thus, the military and other security agencies deserve commendation for this successful polls. “Also, we saw how the INEC officials maturely handled the complaints of the APC agent who sought to create confusion at the state collation centre when the Orihomwon Local Government result was about to be declared. The INEC and its officials deserve to be commended for their neutrality in this election. “We can see that the result represents realistic figures from one local government area to the other. No case of outlandish figures being reeled out. That is also a sign of some level of credibility in the process. Fintiri congratulates Obaseki Adamawa Governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri has described Obaseki’s win as a well deserved victory accepted across the state adding that the election is indeed a true reflection of the wishes of people of Edo state. Ahmadu Fintiri who is the Vice Chairman of PDP National campaign committee, urged Obaseki and the PDP to extend a hand of fellowship to the opposition and dedicate himself to reuniting the people. “The path is now clear for focused piloting of the states affairs towards doing more for the people of Edo in your last term as Governor”. He stated. He noted that the people of Edo have made their vote count and encouraged Obaseki to write his name in gold as one who changed the politics of Edo state. Tambuwal congratulates Obaseki Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for ensuring free and fair election devoid of violence in Edo state. “As the election was proceeding apace yesterday, I took a bold step to commend Mr President over his statesmanship. Some may have taken my observations with a pinch of salt. ” But as an incurable Democrat what I foresaw with the benefit of quality information filtering out of the theater of election in the legendary state, I became convinced that Nigeria is no longer a lonely crowd. And, more convincingly, that our shepherd has embraced the age-long norm of cooperation which has served some successful democracies across the free world well long before now,” he said The Governor added that “I once again doff my hat for the President Muhammadu Buhari for allowing the conduct of the election to be free, fair and devoid of violence. Buhari shows credible election is possible- Oyegun Former Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, John Oyegun said that the with credible Edo governorship election, president Muhammadu Buhari, has shown that credible election is possible in Nigeria. He commended president Muhammadu Buhari for conducting a free and fair election. He said with the conduct of Independent National Electoral Commission, and security agents during the election, it shows that no order was given to them. He however commended president Buhari, Edo People and all those who contributed to making the election free, fair peaceful and credible. ” I don’t have much to say but to thank God that no life was lost during the election” He noted that the Edo APC will bounce back in subsequent election as it has learnt lesson from past mistakes. PDP reps greet Obaseki win The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Caucus in the House of Representatives has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki on his victory at the Governorship election in Edo State held on Saturday. The Caucus in a statement by its leader, Kingsley Chinda (PDP,Rivers) said Governor Obaseki’s victory is a reflection of the people’s will to elect a credible leader that will serve their interest not the interests of a few. “This is a sign that Nigerians and especially the people of Edo state have woken up to the fact that their votes must count and say no to god-fatherism politics in Nigeria “Though the election witnessed the display of security operatives laying siege on Governors of the peoples Democratic Party, it did not deter or distract voters from voting a leader that will pilot the affairs of the state in the next four years ” I am happy that citizens are beginning to wake up to understand that the issue of god-fatherism must be put to an end in a bid to pave room for transparent, credible and a democratic society. “We also Congratulate Ize Iyamu for adding value to democracy and advise him to accept the result in good faith and join hands with his Benin brother Gov. Obaseki to provide quality service to the people of Edo State . Akwa Ibom governor salutes Obaseki The Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state on his re-election for a second term in office on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). “Last year, the good people of Akwa Ibom State rose in unison and said no to godfatherism and the much touted Federal might, declaring their fidelity to the supremacy of our ONLY GOD in the Affairs of man. “Today, our brothers and sisters in Edo State have replicated the same wholesome faith and belief in God over the boastful exuberance of ordinary mortals by voting to return a leader who best represents their values and ethos; a doer and not a talker. “On behalf of the Government and the good people of Akwa Ibom State, I join our brethren in Edo to congratulate our brother, His Excellency, Governor Godwin Obaseki for securing the trust and faith of the good people of Edo State to superintend over the affairs of the State for another four years. “As I have always said, a good job delivered well, means more job to be done. I have no doubt that you will step up to the plate and deliver big time for the Edo people. Let me also congratulate our great party, the PDP and of course, the INEC for a job well- done!” he stated.