Leaders of the APC in Oyo State on Thursday said it was time to settle all crises in the party ahead of the 2023 general elections to reclaim the state. They urged all the members of the party to jettison any idea of belonging to any faction of the two former late governors, Abiola Ajimobi and Lam Adesina, for the progress of the party. In Edo, neither APC nor PDP merits a pint of your blood Former Adamawa governor leaves APC for PDP APC lost the 2019 gubernatorial election to Governor Seyi Makinde of the PDP. But on Thursday, they vowed to unseat him in 2023. At the meeting were the chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Adeolu Akande; a former Minister of Communications, Barrister Adebayo Shittu; senators Soji Akanbi and Ayo Adeseun and Alhaji Abu Gbadamosi who chaired the meeting. Other APC stalwarts at the meeting were Chief Goke Oyetunji, Barr Niyi Akintola, Alhaji Fatal Ibikunle, Saheed Fijabi, Bosun Oladele and Sunbo Olugbemi. In a communique issued at the meeting, the stalwarts urged various groups in the party to sheathe their swords and work for the unity of the party to unseat the ruling PDP. In the communique signed by a former Secretary to the State Government who is the chairman of the communique drafting committee, Alhaji Waheed Olajide and Professor Akande, who is the secretary, they said all contentious issues within the party had been examined and resolved. Leaders of the APC in Oyo State on Thursday said it was time to settle all crises in the party ahead of the 2023 general elections to reclaim the state. They urged all the members of the party to jettison any idea of belonging to any faction of the two former late governors, Abiola Ajimobi and Lam Adesina, for the progress of the party. In Edo, neither APC nor PDP merits a pint of your blood Former Adamawa governor leaves APC for PDP APC lost the 2019 gubernatorial election to Governor Seyi Makinde of the PDP. But on Thursday, they vowed to unseat him in 2023. At the meeting were the chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Adeolu Akande; a former Minister of Communications, Barrister Adebayo Shittu; senators Soji Akanbi and Ayo Adeseun and Alhaji Abu Gbadamosi who chaired the meeting. Other APC stalwarts at the meeting were Chief Goke Oyetunji, Barr Niyi Akintola, Alhaji Fatal Ibikunle, Saheed Fijabi, Bosun Oladele and Sunbo Olugbemi. In a communique issued at the meeting, the stalwarts urged various groups in the party to sheathe their swords and work for the unity of the party to unseat the ruling PDP. In the communique signed by a former Secretary to the State Government who is the chairman of the communique drafting committee, Alhaji Waheed Olajide and Professor Akande, who is the secretary, they said all contentious issues within the party had been examined and resolved.