Nasarawa State House of Assembly has summoned Stanley Buba, a senior special assistant to Gov Abdullahi Sule on Development Control, to appear before it on Wednesday, Sept. 9, 2020 by 10am over a leadership crisis. The assembly said it summoned Buba to give him a fair hearing on the leadership crisis between him and the Managing Director of the Niger State Urban Development Board (NUDB), Adamu Sule. The House Speaker, Ibrahim Balarabe-Abdullahi, issued the summon after Suleiman Azara, Chairman, House Committee on NUDB raised the issue under the matters of public importance during the House proceedings in Lafia on Monday. Balarabe-Abdullahi said that the invitation extended to the SSA was to enable him to explain to the House on why he undermined the resolutions passed by the House Committee on NUDB over the leadership crisis facing the board. “We are all aware that NUDB is a creation of this House and by law. We cannot sit to allow any person or group of persons undermine the power of this House. He said the summon would also “give him the opportunity to express himself on the leadership crisis; he may have some vital information to give us that we may not know.” Earlier, the Chairman, House Committee on NUDB,  Suleiman Azara (APC-Awe-South) said that the SSA was undermining the power of the committee over the leadership crisis between him and the Managing Director (MD), of the Board. “When we invited the affected officials, they both explained their sides of their powers and we have taken a position based on the law that established the NUDB. “Unfortunately, the SSA proved to the committee that he is more powerful than the committee. “It is in view of this that I am raising this matter on the need for the House to intervene in order to avert future re-occurrence,” he said. The State House of Assembly Committee on NUDB headed by Azara had on Sept. 1, resolved the leadership crisis rocking NUDB. (NAN) Nasarawa State House of Assembly has summoned Stanley Buba, a senior special assistant to Gov Abdullahi Sule on Development Control, to appear before it on Wednesday, Sept. 9, 2020 by 10am over a leadership crisis. The assembly said it summoned Buba to give him a fair hearing on the leadership crisis between him and the Managing Director of the Niger State Urban Development Board (NUDB), Adamu Sule. The House Speaker, Ibrahim Balarabe-Abdullahi, issued the summon after Suleiman Azara, Chairman, House Committee on NUDB raised the issue under the matters of public importance during the House proceedings in Lafia on Monday. Balarabe-Abdullahi said that the invitation extended to the SSA was to enable him to explain to the House on why he undermined the resolutions passed by the House Committee on NUDB over the leadership crisis facing the board. “We are all aware that NUDB is a creation of this House and by law. We cannot sit to allow any person or group of persons undermine the power of this House. He said the summon would also “give him the opportunity to express himself on the leadership crisis; he may have some vital information to give us that we may not know.” Earlier, the Chairman, House Committee on NUDB,  Suleiman Azara (APC-Awe-South) said that the SSA was undermining the power of the committee over the leadership crisis between him and the Managing Director (MD), of the Board. “When we invited the affected officials, they both explained their sides of their powers and we have taken a position based on the law that established the NUDB. “Unfortunately, the SSA proved to the committee that he is more powerful than the committee. “It is in view of this that I am raising this matter on the need for the House to intervene in order to avert future re-occurrence,” he said. The State House of Assembly Committee on NUDB headed by Azara had on Sept. 1, resolved the leadership crisis rocking NUDB. (NAN)