Notore Chemical Industries Plc has donated a 40,000 litre solar-powered integrated water plant to Kangare Community in Bauchi Local Government, Bauchi State. It said the project is part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) aimed at enhancing the wellbeing of farmers and communities in which it operates. The company is also set to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Bauchi State Government to provide farmers inputs at affordable prices in 20 local government areas of the state. Group Managing Director/GCEO of Notore, Mr. Onajite Okoloko, who was represented by the company’s Head of Government Affairs, Mr. Yakubu Abdurrahman, at the commissioning ceremony of the water project in Kangare, said: “As an active member of the Kangare farming community, Notore noted the shortage of potable drinking water as one of the major social challenges facing the community. Consequently, we decided to construct a 40,000 litre capacity solar powered water project to support the state government’s efforts.” He said Notore has recruited over 3,600 extension service professionals to work hand- in-hand with farmers in the 774 local government areas in the country, teaching them best farming practices. Governor Bala Mohammed, said the proposed MoU will ensure timely provision of extension services to farmers so as to improve their knowledge on Good Agricultural Practices (GAP). “Notore is a success story of privatization. We are grateful for your corporate social responsibility intervention with the building of an integrated water project in Kangere.”  Notore Chemical Industries Plc has donated a 40,000 litre solar-powered integrated water plant to Kangare Community in Bauchi Local Government, Bauchi State. It said the project is part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) aimed at enhancing the wellbeing of farmers and communities in which it operates. The company is also set to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Bauchi State Government to provide farmers inputs at affordable prices in 20 local government areas of the state. Group Managing Director/GCEO of Notore, Mr. Onajite Okoloko, who was represented by the company’s Head of Government Affairs, Mr. Yakubu Abdurrahman, at the commissioning ceremony of the water project in Kangare, said: “As an active member of the Kangare farming community, Notore noted the shortage of potable drinking water as one of the major social challenges facing the community. Consequently, we decided to construct a 40,000 litre capacity solar powered water project to support the state government’s efforts.” He said Notore has recruited over 3,600 extension service professionals to work hand- in-hand with farmers in the 774 local government areas in the country, teaching them best farming practices. Governor Bala Mohammed, said the proposed MoU will ensure timely provision of extension services to farmers so as to improve their knowledge on Good Agricultural Practices (GAP). “Notore is a success story of privatization. We are grateful for your corporate social responsibility intervention with the building of an integrated water project in Kangere.” 