The federal government on Monday launched the Digital Nigeria portal and mobile app for Information Technology skill acquisition for Nigerians. The launch was done virtually by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, in his office in Abuja. Pantami said the portal and mobile app were launched by the government to develop the capacity of Nigerians to use technology to solve problems. “Today, we are formally launching the portal and the Digital Nigeria mobile app. We are committed to enabling Nigerians to acquire high-level digital skills from the comfort of their homes. “We will keep updating the course offerings to reflect global trends. The step-by-step procedure for using the platforms will be available on our website and social media pages”, he said. The minister also said the Digital Nigeria programme will provide a platform to empower Nigerians to develop relevant skills and build innovative solutions to address challenges within the country. He said the project supported by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and Microsoft will create an enabling environment for building the capacity of Innovation Driven Enterprises (IDEs) and Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) through e-learning channels. “It will have a strong emphasis on skills for jobs and will include Nigerians in all strata of society, such as youth, women, children, internally displaced persons, people living with disabilities, etc.”  The federal government on Monday launched the Digital Nigeria portal and mobile app for Information Technology skill acquisition for Nigerians. The launch was done virtually by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, in his office in Abuja. Pantami said the portal and mobile app were launched by the government to develop the capacity of Nigerians to use technology to solve problems. “Today, we are formally launching the portal and the Digital Nigeria mobile app. We are committed to enabling Nigerians to acquire high-level digital skills from the comfort of their homes. “We will keep updating the course offerings to reflect global trends. The step-by-step procedure for using the platforms will be available on our website and social media pages”, he said. The minister also said the Digital Nigeria programme will provide a platform to empower Nigerians to develop relevant skills and build innovative solutions to address challenges within the country. He said the project supported by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and Microsoft will create an enabling environment for building the capacity of Innovation Driven Enterprises (IDEs) and Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) through e-learning channels. “It will have a strong emphasis on skills for jobs and will include Nigerians in all strata of society, such as youth, women, children, internally displaced persons, people living with disabilities, etc.” 