The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has directed the executives of Kuchiko Resettlement Area association in Bwari, popularly known as El-Rufai Estate, to stop the collection of levies imposed on property owners in the scheme. City News reports that aggrieved residents had kicked against the introduction of various types of dues, levies and sale of stickers which they described as ‘illegal’ and therefore called on the relevant authority to wade into the matter. This was sequel to a monthly general meeting of the association held on September 12, after which the association executives issued a statement imposing numerous levies on the members. Although a statement said the levies were “meant to generate money to fix the road, other infrastructure, and welfare gift without asking members to pay any money for the year, many members kicked, describing the move as ‘illegal.’ In a letter addressed to the Chairman of the association, and signed by Sanusi Mohammed, AD, Urban Affairs, the FCTA said the association, like other neighbourhood associations, was optional for residents and, as such, lacks the right to impose dues on all residents under whatever guise. The letter titled, “Re: Collection of illegal dues from residents” dated September 22, a copy of which City News obtained, reads: “This is to notify you that we have received reports that your association has imposed various types of dues and levies as well as selling stickers to Kuchiko Relocation Site. “To this effect, you are requested to stop the sale of the said stickers, collection of any levies and such unwarranted contributions from the residents with immediate effect.” While reminding the association executives that they have no right or mandate to impose dues on residents under what so ever guise, the letter said: “It has also come to our notice that your association has put up a barrier at the entrance of the relocation scheme for the purpose of collecting dues from trucks carrying construction materials into the scheme. “This action should be stopped immediately and the barrier should be kept for security purpose only.” The letter which was copied the FCT Minister, Acting Coordinator, AMMC as well as the FCT reminded the executives that the association should not engage in activities that would bring disunity and breakdown of law and order in the scheme. “Please be reminded that Kuchiko Relocation is an FCTA scheme aimed to assist illegal squatters integrate into the FCT legally; the FCT has its plans and objectives. Kindly endeavour to key into these plans and objectives.”  The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has directed the executives of Kuchiko Resettlement Area association in Bwari, popularly known as El-Rufai Estate, to stop the collection of levies imposed on property owners in the scheme. City News reports that aggrieved residents had kicked against the introduction of various types of dues, levies and sale of stickers which they described as ‘illegal’ and therefore called on the relevant authority to wade into the matter. This was sequel to a monthly general meeting of the association held on September 12, after which the association executives issued a statement imposing numerous levies on the members. Although a statement said the levies were “meant to generate money to fix the road, other infrastructure, and welfare gift without asking members to pay any money for the year, many members kicked, describing the move as ‘illegal.’ In a letter addressed to the Chairman of the association, and signed by Sanusi Mohammed, AD, Urban Affairs, the FCTA said the association, like other neighbourhood associations, was optional for residents and, as such, lacks the right to impose dues on all residents under whatever guise. The letter titled, “Re: Collection of illegal dues from residents” dated September 22, a copy of which City News obtained, reads: “This is to notify you that we have received reports that your association has imposed various types of dues and levies as well as selling stickers to Kuchiko Relocation Site. “To this effect, you are requested to stop the sale of the said stickers, collection of any levies and such unwarranted contributions from the residents with immediate effect.” While reminding the association executives that they have no right or mandate to impose dues on residents under what so ever guise, the letter said: “It has also come to our notice that your association has put up a barrier at the entrance of the relocation scheme for the purpose of collecting dues from trucks carrying construction materials into the scheme. “This action should be stopped immediately and the barrier should be kept for security purpose only.” The letter which was copied the FCT Minister, Acting Coordinator, AMMC as well as the FCT reminded the executives that the association should not engage in activities that would bring disunity and breakdown of law and order in the scheme. “Please be reminded that Kuchiko Relocation is an FCTA scheme aimed to assist illegal squatters integrate into the FCT legally; the FCT has its plans and objectives. Kindly endeavour to key into these plans and objectives.” 