The Ogun State government has approved the construction of what it termed three key roads in the state. The roads are the long-abandoned 4.65-kilometre Denro-Isashi-Akute road and the 2.3 kilometre Olusegun Osoba-Toyin road in the Agbado area, both in Ifo Local Government and the 3.2-kilometre Molipa-Erinlu Road, which connects Ijebu Ode, Odogbolu and Ijebu North-East local governments in the Ogun East Senatorial District. The Ogun State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Ade Akinsanya, told newsmen after a virtual State Exco meeting in Abeokuta on Wednesday that the Denro-Ishashi-Akute Road had been abandoned for years and residents in the area traumatised by its bad condition. Akinsanya described the two roads in Ifo Local Government as “very vital”, and adding, “There will be a brand new road linking this place to Lagos soon.” He added that the roads, when completed, would contribute immensely to the socio-economic growth and improvement of the security architecture of the state. The Commissioner disclosed that no fewer than four road projects would be presented to the State Executive Council for approval every two weeks. Speaking on housing projects, the Special Adviser to Governor Dapo Abiodun on Public Communication, Remmy Hazzan, disclosed that different housing projects were going on in different parts of the state.  The Ogun State government has approved the construction of what it termed three key roads in the state. The roads are the long-abandoned 4.65-kilometre Denro-Isashi-Akute road and the 2.3 kilometre Olusegun Osoba-Toyin road in the Agbado area, both in Ifo Local Government and the 3.2-kilometre Molipa-Erinlu Road, which connects Ijebu Ode, Odogbolu and Ijebu North-East local governments in the Ogun East Senatorial District. The Ogun State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Ade Akinsanya, told newsmen after a virtual State Exco meeting in Abeokuta on Wednesday that the Denro-Ishashi-Akute Road had been abandoned for years and residents in the area traumatised by its bad condition. Akinsanya described the two roads in Ifo Local Government as “very vital”, and adding, “There will be a brand new road linking this place to Lagos soon.” He added that the roads, when completed, would contribute immensely to the socio-economic growth and improvement of the security architecture of the state. The Commissioner disclosed that no fewer than four road projects would be presented to the State Executive Council for approval every two weeks. Speaking on housing projects, the Special Adviser to Governor Dapo Abiodun on Public Communication, Remmy Hazzan, disclosed that different housing projects were going on in different parts of the state. 