The Senator Tony Adeniyi-led faction of the Ekiti state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has suspended the state governor, Kayode Fayemi, over alleged anti-party activities. There are many factions of the APC in Ekiti state ahead of the 2023 general elections. In a communique at the end of their meeting on Thursday, signed by Senator Tony Adeniyi, and seven other executive members, the faction said the governor has failed to initiate ward congresses. It also claimed that the governor did not call for a meeting of the state executive to deliberate on critical issues affecting the party since he assumed office as Ekiti governor in 2018. The communique reads in party, “In the absence of a properly organized body and meeting, and the continued insistence of the governor to neglect his duty to initiate Ward Congresses or call a meeting of the SEC to deliberate upon pertinent issues, we as loyal members of our party and members of the State Executive Committee met to rescue our party from continued denigration and abuse, and resolved thus: “That Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the Executive Governor of Ekiti state is hereby suspended from the party in view of his numerous anti-party activities especially his role in the recent concluded governorship election in Edo state which is contrary to the provisions of Article 21 (A) (ii) of the APC Constitution. “We must be able to sustain the relevance of our party in Ekiti state, hold our members and win new members. We are obligated to ensure that the light of our electoral prospect and fortune is not dimmed or extinguished. “The committee seating also agreed to begin bridge building across our members, statewide and nationally, and set up a special intervention committee, APC Majeobaje Working Group, to be led by Prince Bamgboye Adegoroye, and six other individuals from across our great state. “That working group will henceforth do the hard work of rebuilding APC in Ekiti state and prevent the oncoming annihilation of our party if we take no action at the upcoming polls.” The Senator Tony Adeniyi-led faction of the Ekiti state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has suspended the state governor, Kayode Fayemi, over alleged anti-party activities. There are many factions of the APC in Ekiti state ahead of the 2023 general elections. In a communique at the end of their meeting on Thursday, signed by Senator Tony Adeniyi, and seven other executive members, the faction said the governor has failed to initiate ward congresses. It also claimed that the governor did not call for a meeting of the state executive to deliberate on critical issues affecting the party since he assumed office as Ekiti governor in 2018. The communique reads in party, “In the absence of a properly organized body and meeting, and the continued insistence of the governor to neglect his duty to initiate Ward Congresses or call a meeting of the SEC to deliberate upon pertinent issues, we as loyal members of our party and members of the State Executive Committee met to rescue our party from continued denigration and abuse, and resolved thus: “That Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the Executive Governor of Ekiti state is hereby suspended from the party in view of his numerous anti-party activities especially his role in the recent concluded governorship election in Edo state which is contrary to the provisions of Article 21 (A) (ii) of the APC Constitution. “We must be able to sustain the relevance of our party in Ekiti state, hold our members and win new members. We are obligated to ensure that the light of our electoral prospect and fortune is not dimmed or extinguished. “The committee seating also agreed to begin bridge building across our members, statewide and nationally, and set up a special intervention committee, APC Majeobaje Working Group, to be led by Prince Bamgboye Adegoroye, and six other individuals from across our great state. “That working group will henceforth do the hard work of rebuilding APC in Ekiti state and prevent the oncoming annihilation of our party if we take no action at the upcoming polls.”