As flight operations peak at the recently reopened Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, Air Peace, the first airline to resume operations at the airport has increased its frequency to two flights daily. The airport was reopened two weeks ago after being shutdown for one year for rehabilitation of the runway. Air Peace had on 9th September resumed flights to the South Eastern states. But with effect from today September 22, the airline said it has increased the number of flights from Lagos to Enugu. Spokesman of the airline, Stanley Olisa in a statement on Tuesday said, “Air Peace promises Enugu Passengers seamless flights as we commence a daily second Los-Enugu-Los in the afternoon. “Passengers can now leave Lagos for Enugu in the morning and still come back to Lagos in the evening, same day with Air Peace. “While this is going on, we are almost finished with plans to reintroduce our night stop and early morning flights in and out of Enugu to Lagos daily. We thank our teeming customers for their unflinching loyalty to the Air Peace brand.” As flight operations peak at the recently reopened Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, Air Peace, the first airline to resume operations at the airport has increased its frequency to two flights daily. The airport was reopened two weeks ago after being shutdown for one year for rehabilitation of the runway. Air Peace had on 9th September resumed flights to the South Eastern states. But with effect from today September 22, the airline said it has increased the number of flights from Lagos to Enugu. Spokesman of the airline, Stanley Olisa in a statement on Tuesday said, “Air Peace promises Enugu Passengers seamless flights as we commence a daily second Los-Enugu-Los in the afternoon. “Passengers can now leave Lagos for Enugu in the morning and still come back to Lagos in the evening, same day with Air Peace. “While this is going on, we are almost finished with plans to reintroduce our night stop and early morning flights in and out of Enugu to Lagos daily. We thank our teeming customers for their unflinching loyalty to the Air Peace brand.”