Deputy Inspector-General of Police Adeleye Oyebade, on Wednesday, said the police would deploy three police officers and personnel of other security agencies to each of the 2,627 polling units across Edo State for the September 19 governorship election. He said the deployment was to ensure effective manning of the polling units and free, fair and peaceful election. Edo poll: Residents worry over violence threats Lagos Police Command deploys 1,000 officers for Edo polls Oyebade, who disclosed this in Benin while briefing journalists on the election preparation, assured that the officers would be neutral and professional in their assignments. He said the election would be a litmus test for the nation’s democratic process. Oyebade said though previous elections may have had their challenges, the force had resolved to improve on them and make the 2020 Edo State governorship election free, better, more inclusive, safer and more credible. He urged the electorate to go out on the election day to vote without any hindrance. Meanwhile, sensitive materials for Saturday’s governorship election in Edo State, on Wednesday, arrived the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) office in the state. Confirming the arrival, Head of Voter Education and Publicity, Edo INEC office, Timidi Wariowei, said they were at the CBN to inspect the sensitive materials in cartons, the ballot papers and the results sheets. “And just now, the braille ballot guide for persons with disabilities, especially the visually impaired, arrived. “We are set for the election. “From tomorrow morning (Friday) as early as 7:30 am, we will start the distribution to various local government areas,” Wariowei added. Deputy Inspector-General of Police Adeleye Oyebade, on Wednesday, said the police would deploy three police officers and personnel of other security agencies to each of the 2,627 polling units across Edo State for the September 19 governorship election. He said the deployment was to ensure effective manning of the polling units and free, fair and peaceful election. Edo poll: Residents worry over violence threats Lagos Police Command deploys 1,000 officers for Edo polls Oyebade, who disclosed this in Benin while briefing journalists on the election preparation, assured that the officers would be neutral and professional in their assignments. He said the election would be a litmus test for the nation’s democratic process. Oyebade said though previous elections may have had their challenges, the force had resolved to improve on them and make the 2020 Edo State governorship election free, better, more inclusive, safer and more credible. He urged the electorate to go out on the election day to vote without any hindrance. Meanwhile, sensitive materials for Saturday’s governorship election in Edo State, on Wednesday, arrived the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) office in the state. Confirming the arrival, Head of Voter Education and Publicity, Edo INEC office, Timidi Wariowei, said they were at the CBN to inspect the sensitive materials in cartons, the ballot papers and the results sheets. “And just now, the braille ballot guide for persons with disabilities, especially the visually impaired, arrived. “We are set for the election. “From tomorrow morning (Friday) as early as 7:30 am, we will start the distribution to various local government areas,” Wariowei added.