Former U.S. President Barack Obama plans to release in November the first volume of a memoir covering his political rise, the 2008 election and his first years in the White House. The 768-page book, entitled A Promised Land, will be released in multiple languages at the same time on Nov. 17, two weeks after the U.S. election. There is not yet a date for the publication of the second volume. The publisher said that details of a book tour will be made available later this year. In the book, Obama describes “in strikingly personal detail both his political education and the landmark moments of the first term of his historic presidency,” according to the publisher. Obama, and former first lady Michelle Obama, sold the rights to their memoir to Crown, a part of Penguin Random House, for 65 million dollars. Michelle Obama’s memoir, becoming, was a smash hit, and the interest in the former president’s book is also expected to be high. In a statement, the former Democratic president said he would go through his mistakes, as well as his achievements, promising “an honest accounting.” Obama had publishing success even before becoming president. Dreams of My Father, from 1995 and The Audacity of Hope, from 2006, sold millions of copies. Obama served as president for two terms, the limit under the constitution, from 2009 until January 2017. The first years of his presidency included the economic downturn of the Great Recession, healthcare reform and the killing of Osama bin Laden. (dpa/NAN) Former U.S. President Barack Obama plans to release in November the first volume of a memoir covering his political rise, the 2008 election and his first years in the White House. The 768-page book, entitled A Promised Land, will be released in multiple languages at the same time on Nov. 17, two weeks after the U.S. election. There is not yet a date for the publication of the second volume. The publisher said that details of a book tour will be made available later this year. In the book, Obama describes “in strikingly personal detail both his political education and the landmark moments of the first term of his historic presidency,” according to the publisher. Obama, and former first lady Michelle Obama, sold the rights to their memoir to Crown, a part of Penguin Random House, for 65 million dollars. Michelle Obama’s memoir, becoming, was a smash hit, and the interest in the former president’s book is also expected to be high. In a statement, the former Democratic president said he would go through his mistakes, as well as his achievements, promising “an honest accounting.” Obama had publishing success even before becoming president. Dreams of My Father, from 1995 and The Audacity of Hope, from 2006, sold millions of copies. Obama served as president for two terms, the limit under the constitution, from 2009 until January 2017. The first years of his presidency included the economic downturn of the Great Recession, healthcare reform and the killing of Osama bin Laden. (dpa/NAN)