Sensitive Materials for the conduct of Edo state governorship election on Saturday have arrived the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Edo state branch on Wednesday. Confirming the arrival of the materials, Head of Voter Education and Publicity, Edo INEC office, Timidi Wariowei, said they were at the CBN to inspected the sensitive materials comprising ballot papers and the results sheets. “And just now, the braille ballot guide for persons with disabilities especially the Visually impaired just arrived,” he said. He said, “we are set for the election. From tomorrow morning as early as 7.30am we will start the distribution to various local government areas” . On his part, the state chairman of the state Inter Party Advisory council, Kelly Ogbaloi, said party agents were invited by INEC to inspect the materials at the CBN. “Everything is intact, we just inspected the materials and we are satisfied,” he said. Yiaga Africa, Programme manager, Mr Paul James, who spoke to journalists, said the group was invited by INEC to inspect the sensitive materials at the CBN office. “We came here on invitation by INEC to inspect the materials that just arrived. He said, “Tomorrow we will have a more detailed observation of the movement of the materials to local government areas.” Sensitive Materials for the conduct of Edo state governorship election on Saturday have arrived the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Edo state branch on Wednesday. Confirming the arrival of the materials, Head of Voter Education and Publicity, Edo INEC office, Timidi Wariowei, said they were at the CBN to inspected the sensitive materials comprising ballot papers and the results sheets. “And just now, the braille ballot guide for persons with disabilities especially the Visually impaired just arrived,” he said. He said, “we are set for the election. From tomorrow morning as early as 7.30am we will start the distribution to various local government areas” . On his part, the state chairman of the state Inter Party Advisory council, Kelly Ogbaloi, said party agents were invited by INEC to inspect the materials at the CBN. “Everything is intact, we just inspected the materials and we are satisfied,” he said. Yiaga Africa, Programme manager, Mr Paul James, who spoke to journalists, said the group was invited by INEC to inspect the sensitive materials at the CBN office. “We came here on invitation by INEC to inspect the materials that just arrived. He said, “Tomorrow we will have a more detailed observation of the movement of the materials to local government areas.”