The Lagos-Ogun Mass Transit Train Service (MTTS) has finally kicked off with the Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC) deploying 13 coaches for the service. The service operated on the old narrow gauge line which started on Monday after over five months of suspension due to COVID-19 recorded 348 passengers on the first day, it was learnt. NRC denies report of bandit attacks on Abuja-Kaduna train NRC resumes Lagos-Ogun train services, hikes fares by 100 per cent Daily Trust observed that the coaches have been duly marked, with some seats skipped, to observe the physical distancing protocol while fares have also been doubled. Speaking with Daily Trust on Tuesday, the Lagos District Manager of the NRC, Engr. Jerry Oche, said compliance with COVID-19 protocol by passengers has been 100 per cent. He disclosed that many armed security operatives are on board to prevent any circumvention of the protocol while one passenger was even de-boarded for failing to use his face covering. Oche, however, said the NRC would continue to monitor the situation for a week before deciding whether to restore some stations based on the available data. The Lagos-Ogun Mass Transit Train Service (MTTS) has finally kicked off with the Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC) deploying 13 coaches for the service. The service operated on the old narrow gauge line which started on Monday after over five months of suspension due to COVID-19 recorded 348 passengers on the first day, it was learnt. NRC denies report of bandit attacks on Abuja-Kaduna train NRC resumes Lagos-Ogun train services, hikes fares by 100 per cent Daily Trust observed that the coaches have been duly marked, with some seats skipped, to observe the physical distancing protocol while fares have also been doubled. Speaking with Daily Trust on Tuesday, the Lagos District Manager of the NRC, Engr. Jerry Oche, said compliance with COVID-19 protocol by passengers has been 100 per cent. He disclosed that many armed security operatives are on board to prevent any circumvention of the protocol while one passenger was even de-boarded for failing to use his face covering. Oche, however, said the NRC would continue to monitor the situation for a week before deciding whether to restore some stations based on the available data.