Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State wants the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC) to deliver power projects in his state. Masari, who was at the headquarters of the company in Abuja on Monday, commended it for projects executed under the National Integrated Power Projects (NIPP) in the state as they would make a great impact in the state. He urged the firm to deliver more projects in addition to the 12 that had been executed in the state. “We have come to ask for more. Principally, I am here to thank you on behalf of Katsina State and to assure you of whatever support you will need from us. “Katsina State will support you because you have done so many projects for us and we are seeking for more,” he said. Masari said two ongoing NIPP projects are at 100 and 85% completion levels, adding that he has submitted a list of more projects to the NDPHC for consideration. The Managing Director of NDPHC, Mr Chiedu Ugbo, said the company was driving the NIPP designed to add 5,000MW of electricity to the national grid with 10 Generation Companies (GenCos). “As at today, the company has delivered more than 4,000MW of its original plan. In the next three months, we will be adding another 125MW to the national grid.” Ugbo stated, adding that it was the second phase of the Gbarain NIPP plant in Bayelsa State. Ugbo also confirmed that the two power substation projects at FADAMA and IBB Road in Katsina town are at completion level. “Were it not for the electricity market challenge, we would have been able to do more,” he added.  Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State wants the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC) to deliver power projects in his state. Masari, who was at the headquarters of the company in Abuja on Monday, commended it for projects executed under the National Integrated Power Projects (NIPP) in the state as they would make a great impact in the state. He urged the firm to deliver more projects in addition to the 12 that had been executed in the state. “We have come to ask for more. Principally, I am here to thank you on behalf of Katsina State and to assure you of whatever support you will need from us. “Katsina State will support you because you have done so many projects for us and we are seeking for more,” he said. Masari said two ongoing NIPP projects are at 100 and 85% completion levels, adding that he has submitted a list of more projects to the NDPHC for consideration. The Managing Director of NDPHC, Mr Chiedu Ugbo, said the company was driving the NIPP designed to add 5,000MW of electricity to the national grid with 10 Generation Companies (GenCos). “As at today, the company has delivered more than 4,000MW of its original plan. In the next three months, we will be adding another 125MW to the national grid.” Ugbo stated, adding that it was the second phase of the Gbarain NIPP plant in Bayelsa State. Ugbo also confirmed that the two power substation projects at FADAMA and IBB Road in Katsina town are at completion level. “Were it not for the electricity market challenge, we would have been able to do more,” he added. 