Sterling Bank Plc, said it has extended coverage of its Farmers’ Radio programme to cover the six-geo-political zones in Nigeria, following its acceptance and success in the north. Group Head, Agric and Solid Minerals Finance, Sterling Bank, Mrs. Bukola Awosanya, said this year’s edition of the seasonal radio programme will air for 13 weeks in major languages across the zones. Kwara lauds Sterling Bank on health scheme Sterling Bank holds agric summit this month Awosanya said each broadcast will last for about 30 minutes, with resource persons from research institutes and Development Financial Institutions (DFIs), among others being invited to discuss technicalities, innovations and available opportunities in agribusiness finance, as well as some dos and don’ts of modernised farming techniques. According to the Group Head, the programme will be broadcast on local radio stations across key agribusiness hubs in Nigeria to conceptualise, produce and broadcast unique programmes aimed at identifying and resolving the constraints faced by farmer groups and processors alike. On specific broadcast partners and regions, Awosanya disclosed that the northwest geo-political zone will be covered by three radio stations in Kano, Katsina and Kaduna. The North Central has four stations in Abuja, Kogi, Benue and Plateau. Three radio stations in Bauchi, Adamawa, and Borno, will air the programme in the Northeast. There are also four stations airing it in Ogun, Osun, Oyo and Ekiti states for the Southwest zone. Two others have been chosen for Imo and Abia state in the southeast while in the South-South, two stations will broadcast the programme in Akwa-Ibom and Cross River state. Sterling Bank Plc, said it has extended coverage of its Farmers’ Radio programme to cover the six-geo-political zones in Nigeria, following its acceptance and success in the north. Group Head, Agric and Solid Minerals Finance, Sterling Bank, Mrs. Bukola Awosanya, said this year’s edition of the seasonal radio programme will air for 13 weeks in major languages across the zones. Kwara lauds Sterling Bank on health scheme Sterling Bank holds agric summit this month Awosanya said each broadcast will last for about 30 minutes, with resource persons from research institutes and Development Financial Institutions (DFIs), among others being invited to discuss technicalities, innovations and available opportunities in agribusiness finance, as well as some dos and don’ts of modernised farming techniques. According to the Group Head, the programme will be broadcast on local radio stations across key agribusiness hubs in Nigeria to conceptualise, produce and broadcast unique programmes aimed at identifying and resolving the constraints faced by farmer groups and processors alike. On specific broadcast partners and regions, Awosanya disclosed that the northwest geo-political zone will be covered by three radio stations in Kano, Katsina and Kaduna. The North Central has four stations in Abuja, Kogi, Benue and Plateau. Three radio stations in Bauchi, Adamawa, and Borno, will air the programme in the Northeast. There are also four stations airing it in Ogun, Osun, Oyo and Ekiti states for the Southwest zone. Two others have been chosen for Imo and Abia state in the southeast while in the South-South, two stations will broadcast the programme in Akwa-Ibom and Cross River state.