The rally to showcase the new Bajaj three-wheeler (tricycle) being marketed by Stallion Group has completed with the Keke covering 5,594 kilometres. The tricycles ran on a tough terrain of Nigerian roads covering 27 cities and 18 states in the West, East and North Central in less than 41 days. The rally had a team of five experienced riders and the Stallion Bajaj officials and security agents with the convoy collectively covering more than 26,000km. Stallion Group, an auto company representing Honda, Hyundai, Nissan, Volkswagen, among other brands recently bagged exclusive distributorship of the Bajaj tricycle. The Managing Director, Mr. Manish Rohtagi who spoke at an event to honour the riders in Lagos said each of the tricycles covered the over 5000 mileage without any product issue. “The Keke Rally really boasts on how the new Baba Bajaj is tough, strong, reliable, and well equipped for the Nigerian roads.” The rally was flagged off from Lagos and covered 17 states to prove the durability of Bajaj Keke.  The rally to showcase the new Bajaj three-wheeler (tricycle) being marketed by Stallion Group has completed with the Keke covering 5,594 kilometres. The tricycles ran on a tough terrain of Nigerian roads covering 27 cities and 18 states in the West, East and North Central in less than 41 days. The rally had a team of five experienced riders and the Stallion Bajaj officials and security agents with the convoy collectively covering more than 26,000km. Stallion Group, an auto company representing Honda, Hyundai, Nissan, Volkswagen, among other brands recently bagged exclusive distributorship of the Bajaj tricycle. The Managing Director, Mr. Manish Rohtagi who spoke at an event to honour the riders in Lagos said each of the tricycles covered the over 5000 mileage without any product issue. “The Keke Rally really boasts on how the new Baba Bajaj is tough, strong, reliable, and well equipped for the Nigerian roads.” The rally was flagged off from Lagos and covered 17 states to prove the durability of Bajaj Keke. 