Suspected political thugs allegedly loyal to the All Progressives Congress (APC) have been accused of carrying out Tuesday’s attack on the campaign office of the deputy governor and candidate of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Agboola Ajayi. This was made public by the Director-General of the Agbo/Gboye Campaign Organization, Dr Kola Ademujimi. He said the attacks on the campaign offices of the candidate had become worrisome. In a swift reaction, however, APC said ZLP was merely looking for attention. Mr Olabode Richard, the spokesman for Akeredolu/Aiyedatiwa Campaign Organization, said ZLP was crying to attract attention. “As you can see, there is nobody that is talking about them in the state. Their political popularity has refused to grow. It’s a rejected party with no political structure. “In fact, we have it on good authority that they orchestrated the attack on themselves just to drag us into issues with them. We are not ready to join issues with a party that has been rejected by the people of Ondo State,” Richard said.  Suspected political thugs allegedly loyal to the All Progressives Congress (APC) have been accused of carrying out Tuesday’s attack on the campaign office of the deputy governor and candidate of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Agboola Ajayi. This was made public by the Director-General of the Agbo/Gboye Campaign Organization, Dr Kola Ademujimi. He said the attacks on the campaign offices of the candidate had become worrisome. In a swift reaction, however, APC said ZLP was merely looking for attention. Mr Olabode Richard, the spokesman for Akeredolu/Aiyedatiwa Campaign Organization, said ZLP was crying to attract attention. “As you can see, there is nobody that is talking about them in the state. Their political popularity has refused to grow. It’s a rejected party with no political structure. “In fact, we have it on good authority that they orchestrated the attack on themselves just to drag us into issues with them. We are not ready to join issues with a party that has been rejected by the people of Ondo State,” Richard said. 