Ahead of the October 31, 2020, by-elections for six vacant Senate seats, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and main opposition party, PDP, are scheming to grab more seats at the Upper Chamber. The six vacant seats are in Bayelsa Central, Bayelsa West, Cross River North, Imo North, Lagos East and Plateau South. Ondo 2020: PDP governorship aspirant resigns Imo North Senate seat contest divides APC, PDP members At the moment, Daily Trust reports that APC occupies 59 seats, PDP 43 and Young Progressive Party (YPP) one seat in the Senate. Our correspondents report that except for the two Bayelsa seats, the four others became vacant following the death of their occupants. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had on August 11 fixed October 31 for the conduct of the by-elections. According to the commission’s harmonised timetable, the political parties are to conduct their primaries to nominate candidates between August 24 and September 8.  Ex-gov Dickson, others to slug it out in Bayelsa With the conclusion of party primaries and emergence of candidates in both PDP and APC in Bayelsa, the two parties have once again renewed their struggle for the control of power in the state. For Bayelsa West, the immediate past governor of the state, Chief Henry Seriake Dickson of the PDP will slug it out with Hon. Peremowei Ebebi of the APC. In Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Moses Cleopas of the PDP will tackle Chief Abel Ebifemowei of APC in the by-election. Political pundits believe that the by-election in Bayelsa West will be keenly contested as both PDP and APC candidates are grassroots politicians and enjoy the support of their followers.  In Lagos East, it is Gbadamosi vs Abiru The Lagos East Senatorial District seat became vacant following the death of Senator Bayo Osinowo on June 15. The by-election has reignited the battle between the ruling APC and PDP in the state as the election is expected to serve as litmus test for the new found vibrancy of the PDP which has vowed to match APC strategy in the forthcoming elections. PDP has vowed to hijack the seats from the ruling party as soon as INEC fixed October 31st for the by-elections. APC on its part said it is set to retain the seats while dismissing the threat by the opposition. Though APC, being the ruling party in the state which was occupying the seat stands a better chance of retaining it, the PDP has vowed to shock the ruling party. Many see the emergence of Babatunde Gbadamosi, a real estate guru, as flag bearer of the PDP for Lagos East as a game changer. Gbadamosi was governorship candidate of Action Democratic Party (ADP) in the 2019 election who later returned to PDP. But the APC candidate, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, who is a former MD of Polaris Bank is also not a neophyte. However, APC despite its popularity and massive presence at the grassroots, declared a street-by-street, ward-by-ward campaign so as not to take anything for granted. Certainly the election would be a test of strength of the two parties and the outcome would definitely prove which of the parties is actually on ground in the state.  PDP squares up against APC in Imo The Imo North senatorial seat became vacant following the death of Senator Ben Uwajumogu of the APC. Our correspondent reports that though the ruling APC appears to have an upper hand in the election, being the party in power, infighting over who becomes its candidate in the election may affect its chances. Frank Ibezim, who emerged the APC candidate is considered a political tyro compared to his challenger, PDP’s Ifeanyi Ararume, a former ranking senator, who had represented the zone for eight years from 1999 to 2007. Our correspondent reports that PDP is yet to come out of the shock of the January 14 Supreme Court decision that ousted Emeka Ihedioha, its candidate from office.  Plateau South Prof. Nora Ladi Dadu’ut, from Mikang LGA, an experienced academic, is the candidate of the APC for Plateau South. She will face George Edward Daika of PDP at the poll. Daika has been in politics for more than 20 years. He was speaker of the state assembly from 1999 to 2003 and reps member between 2007 and 2011.  APC, PDP react APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, told our correspondent in a telephone chat on Tuesday that the party was embarking on issue-based campaign and mobilising the grassroots ahead of the polls, adding that the achievements recorded by the APC in those states would form part of the campaign. “We are preparing for next month and we are hopeful of winning. “All the projects that we have done are on ground not on paper. “Some parties are doing their projects on paper, but ours are visibly on ground. “So that will form part of our campaigns. Our campaign will be issue-based. “We are sure that by the grace of God, we will win more seats in the Senate and others as well,” he said. But when contacted, PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, told Daily Trust in a telephone interview that APC was already campaigning for the PDP to win the by-elections. “The reality on ground has clearly shown that the current government has lost ideas and as such Nigerians are tired. “The increase in fuel price, the hike in electricity tariff and many others will work against the APC in the October 31 by-elections. “So we are optimistic of winning more Senate seats in the by-elections and we are preparing for the elections,” he said. Ahead of the October 31, 2020, by-elections for six vacant Senate seats, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and main opposition party, PDP, are scheming to grab more seats at the Upper Chamber. The six vacant seats are in Bayelsa Central, Bayelsa West, Cross River North, Imo North, Lagos East and Plateau South. Ondo 2020: PDP governorship aspirant resigns Imo North Senate seat contest divides APC, PDP members At the moment, Daily Trust reports that APC occupies 59 seats, PDP 43 and Young Progressive Party (YPP) one seat in the Senate. Our correspondents report that except for the two Bayelsa seats, the four others became vacant following the death of their occupants. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had on August 11 fixed October 31 for the conduct of the by-elections. According to the commission’s harmonised timetable, the political parties are to conduct their primaries to nominate candidates between August 24 and September 8.  Ex-gov Dickson, others to slug it out in Bayelsa With the conclusion of party primaries and emergence of candidates in both PDP and APC in Bayelsa, the two parties have once again renewed their struggle for the control of power in the state. For Bayelsa West, the immediate past governor of the state, Chief Henry Seriake Dickson of the PDP will slug it out with Hon. Peremowei Ebebi of the APC. In Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Moses Cleopas of the PDP will tackle Chief Abel Ebifemowei of APC in the by-election. Political pundits believe that the by-election in Bayelsa West will be keenly contested as both PDP and APC candidates are grassroots politicians and enjoy the support of their followers.  In Lagos East, it is Gbadamosi vs Abiru The Lagos East Senatorial District seat became vacant following the death of Senator Bayo Osinowo on June 15. The by-election has reignited the battle between the ruling APC and PDP in the state as the election is expected to serve as litmus test for the new found vibrancy of the PDP which has vowed to match APC strategy in the forthcoming elections. PDP has vowed to hijack the seats from the ruling party as soon as INEC fixed October 31st for the by-elections. APC on its part said it is set to retain the seats while dismissing the threat by the opposition. Though APC, being the ruling party in the state which was occupying the seat stands a better chance of retaining it, the PDP has vowed to shock the ruling party. Many see the emergence of Babatunde Gbadamosi, a real estate guru, as flag bearer of the PDP for Lagos East as a game changer. Gbadamosi was governorship candidate of Action Democratic Party (ADP) in the 2019 election who later returned to PDP. But the APC candidate, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, who is a former MD of Polaris Bank is also not a neophyte. However, APC despite its popularity and massive presence at the grassroots, declared a street-by-street, ward-by-ward campaign so as not to take anything for granted. Certainly the election would be a test of strength of the two parties and the outcome would definitely prove which of the parties is actually on ground in the state.  PDP squares up against APC in Imo The Imo North senatorial seat became vacant following the death of Senator Ben Uwajumogu of the APC. Our correspondent reports that though the ruling APC appears to have an upper hand in the election, being the party in power, infighting over who becomes its candidate in the election may affect its chances. Frank Ibezim, who emerged the APC candidate is considered a political tyro compared to his challenger, PDP’s Ifeanyi Ararume, a former ranking senator, who had represented the zone for eight years from 1999 to 2007. Our correspondent reports that PDP is yet to come out of the shock of the January 14 Supreme Court decision that ousted Emeka Ihedioha, its candidate from office.  Plateau South Prof. Nora Ladi Dadu’ut, from Mikang LGA, an experienced academic, is the candidate of the APC for Plateau South. She will face George Edward Daika of PDP at the poll. Daika has been in politics for more than 20 years. He was speaker of the state assembly from 1999 to 2003 and reps member between 2007 and 2011.  APC, PDP react APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, told our correspondent in a telephone chat on Tuesday that the party was embarking on issue-based campaign and mobilising the grassroots ahead of the polls, adding that the achievements recorded by the APC in those states would form part of the campaign. “We are preparing for next month and we are hopeful of winning. “All the projects that we have done are on ground not on paper. “Some parties are doing their projects on paper, but ours are visibly on ground. “So that will form part of our campaigns. Our campaign will be issue-based. “We are sure that by the grace of God, we will win more seats in the Senate and others as well,” he said. But when contacted, PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, told Daily Trust in a telephone interview that APC was already campaigning for the PDP to win the by-elections. “The reality on ground has clearly shown that the current government has lost ideas and as such Nigerians are tired. “The increase in fuel price, the hike in electricity tariff and many others will work against the APC in the October 31 by-elections. “So we are optimistic of winning more Senate seats in the by-elections and we are preparing for the elections,” he said.