Former Kano governor Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso has said the advisories from the US and UK warning potential election riggers of consequences beyond the borders of Nigeria were very effective. He spoke while congratulating Edo governor Godwin Obaseki on his election win on Saturday. According to him, in a statement by his Principal Private Secretary, Muhammad Inuwa Ali, beyond the success, the action of the Edo people symbolizes hope for every true democrat in our country. He said, “Let me thank the representatives of the international community in Nigeria, especially the United State embassy in Nigeria and the United Kingdom embassy in Nigeria for their timely advice to merchants of election malpractice and perpetrators of electoral violence. “Your advisory to election riggers and promoters of election violence to know that there are consequences, beyond the borders of Nigeria, for their ignominious action was very effective. We thank you for your interest in deepening democracy in our country.” He added, “Without a doubt, our victory in Edo State was hugely facilitated by the outstanding commitment, resilience, courage and the doggedness of the chairman of our Campaign Council, His Excellency Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and the entire members of the Campaign Council including all PDP governors. I commend you all as we celebrate the success-for-democracy in Nigeria. “There is no gainsaying that the Edo Victory is a victory for our great party, the PDP. I therefore congratulate our amiable Chairman Chief Uche Secondus and his entire team. This success is a testimony to your dexterity, political savvy and focused leadership. “I wish to express my appreciation to numerous interest groups in Edo State, including business community, traditional institution, the clergy, the academics, women groups, Civil Society groups, Arewa community, Edo Kwankwasiyya, the youth, the media and students, most of whom I met with during my campaign visit to Edo State, for their support and cooperation.” Former Kano governor Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso has said the advisories from the US and UK warning potential election riggers of consequences beyond the borders of Nigeria were very effective. He spoke while congratulating Edo governor Godwin Obaseki on his election win on Saturday. According to him, in a statement by his Principal Private Secretary, Muhammad Inuwa Ali, beyond the success, the action of the Edo people symbolizes hope for every true democrat in our country. He said, “Let me thank the representatives of the international community in Nigeria, especially the United State embassy in Nigeria and the United Kingdom embassy in Nigeria for their timely advice to merchants of election malpractice and perpetrators of electoral violence. “Your advisory to election riggers and promoters of election violence to know that there are consequences, beyond the borders of Nigeria, for their ignominious action was very effective. We thank you for your interest in deepening democracy in our country.” He added, “Without a doubt, our victory in Edo State was hugely facilitated by the outstanding commitment, resilience, courage and the doggedness of the chairman of our Campaign Council, His Excellency Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and the entire members of the Campaign Council including all PDP governors. I commend you all as we celebrate the success-for-democracy in Nigeria. “There is no gainsaying that the Edo Victory is a victory for our great party, the PDP. I therefore congratulate our amiable Chairman Chief Uche Secondus and his entire team. This success is a testimony to your dexterity, political savvy and focused leadership. “I wish to express my appreciation to numerous interest groups in Edo State, including business community, traditional institution, the clergy, the academics, women groups, Civil Society groups, Arewa community, Edo Kwankwasiyya, the youth, the media and students, most of whom I met with during my campaign visit to Edo State, for their support and cooperation.”