The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on Monday started a census of commercial and industrial businesses to create a database for interventions that will ease the effects of the COVID-19. The Statistician-General of the Federation, Dr. Yemi Kale, said the National Business Sample Census (NBSC) will collect data on businesses to help understand their dynamics and contribute to the recovery of the economy. The Business Census also known as an Economic Census is a statistical exercise. “During this process, commercial and industrial business operations in fixed locations are listed with valuable information including the nature of the economic activity of the establishments, the number of employees they engage, their contact details, amongst other things, are collected during the exercise.” Kale, who is also the Director-General of NBS, said the last time a similar survey was conducted was 20 years ago due to funding issues, instead of every five years, as recommended by the United Nations Statistical Commission. The Director of Household Statistics, Adeyemi Adeniran, said the survey will bridge the inconsistencies and insufficiency of data on businesses in Nigeria. Adeniran said during the COVID-19 lockdown, there was no comprehensive list of businesses for the Federal Government. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) created an online database to register businesses for their interventions but that with the NBSC, there will be a comprehensive database.  The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on Monday started a census of commercial and industrial businesses to create a database for interventions that will ease the effects of the COVID-19. The Statistician-General of the Federation, Dr. Yemi Kale, said the National Business Sample Census (NBSC) will collect data on businesses to help understand their dynamics and contribute to the recovery of the economy. The Business Census also known as an Economic Census is a statistical exercise. “During this process, commercial and industrial business operations in fixed locations are listed with valuable information including the nature of the economic activity of the establishments, the number of employees they engage, their contact details, amongst other things, are collected during the exercise.” Kale, who is also the Director-General of NBS, said the last time a similar survey was conducted was 20 years ago due to funding issues, instead of every five years, as recommended by the United Nations Statistical Commission. The Director of Household Statistics, Adeyemi Adeniran, said the survey will bridge the inconsistencies and insufficiency of data on businesses in Nigeria. Adeniran said during the COVID-19 lockdown, there was no comprehensive list of businesses for the Federal Government. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) created an online database to register businesses for their interventions but that with the NBSC, there will be a comprehensive database. 