First Bank of Nigeria Limited (FirstBank) has partnered with Arese Ugwu for the TV adaptation of her book: Smart Money Woman. In a statement, the bank said the weekly show would premiere on Africa Magic Showcase on Wednesday night. The Smart Money Woman programme will show the experiences, sacrifices, struggles and vigour of women as they carry out their day to day activities despite the gender imbalance in the society, especially in Africa. The half hour 13-episode series will have viewers exposed to financial literacy nuggets. The series is an adaptation of Smart Money Woman, written to tackle debt, providing tips on inculcating the right savings culture of the African middle class woman. The author of Smart Money Woman and Executive Producer of Smart Tribe Media, Arese Ugwu, said, “Smart Money Woman is a love letter to every modern and upwardly mobile African woman who is exploring life opportunities and experiences to find that right balance in her day to day activities, especially in her career, friendship, relationship and of course family.” Folake Ani-Mumuney, the Group Head, Marketing and Corporate Communication of FirstBank, said, “FirstBank has been at the forefront of promoting female empowerment, and we understand the role financial literacy plays in deepening financial inclusion, while promoting female independence. “The essence of the TV programme is to raise financial awareness to inspire every individual in the society, especially women, to make informed choices and take effective actions for their financial wellbeing.”  First Bank of Nigeria Limited (FirstBank) has partnered with Arese Ugwu for the TV adaptation of her book: Smart Money Woman. In a statement, the bank said the weekly show would premiere on Africa Magic Showcase on Wednesday night. The Smart Money Woman programme will show the experiences, sacrifices, struggles and vigour of women as they carry out their day to day activities despite the gender imbalance in the society, especially in Africa. The half hour 13-episode series will have viewers exposed to financial literacy nuggets. The series is an adaptation of Smart Money Woman, written to tackle debt, providing tips on inculcating the right savings culture of the African middle class woman. The author of Smart Money Woman and Executive Producer of Smart Tribe Media, Arese Ugwu, said, “Smart Money Woman is a love letter to every modern and upwardly mobile African woman who is exploring life opportunities and experiences to find that right balance in her day to day activities, especially in her career, friendship, relationship and of course family.” Folake Ani-Mumuney, the Group Head, Marketing and Corporate Communication of FirstBank, said, “FirstBank has been at the forefront of promoting female empowerment, and we understand the role financial literacy plays in deepening financial inclusion, while promoting female independence. “The essence of the TV programme is to raise financial awareness to inspire every individual in the society, especially women, to make informed choices and take effective actions for their financial wellbeing.” 