A former deputy speaker, Edo State House of Assembly, Yekini Idaiye, has expressed optimism that APC will win Saturday’s governorship election in the state. Idaiye, representing Akoko-Edo I, spoke on Wednesday with journalists on the chances of APC in the election. Edo NBA denies endorsing Ize-Iyamu Edo governorship: Sensitive materials arrive Edo It would be recalled that Idaiye was removed as deputy speaker after endorsing APC candidate, Pastor Ize-Iyamu. He said APC would win in his constituency because there was no tangible project carried out in the area in the last four years. The lawmaker, who denied collecting N40 million to remain in APC, described the allegation as politics taken too far. He, however, advised the electorate to come out en masse to vote, expressing confidence that the election would be devoid of violence following the deployment of security officers. Similarly, a member of the National Caucus of the ruling APC, Chief Sam Nkire, has predicted victory for his party in the governorship election taking place in Edo State this Saturday. Chief Nkire, who is a one-time national chairman of the Progressive People’s Alliance (PPA) which ruled Abia and Imo states between 2007 and 2011, however, said the win was likely to be narrow, adding, “a win is a win”. The APC chieftain was also of the opinion that all those who believed that Edo State was still a ‘PDP State’, were living in the past, adding that the last two governors of the state were APC members. Nkire said those who are conversant with the politics of Edo State know that the only way the PDP could win was through electoral malpractice, without which the APC was sure to carry the day. Chief Nkire maintained that although the Edo State governorship election was not a do-or-die affair for APC as it seems with the PDP, his party would govern Edo State one more time. A former deputy speaker, Edo State House of Assembly, Yekini Idaiye, has expressed optimism that APC will win Saturday’s governorship election in the state. Idaiye, representing Akoko-Edo I, spoke on Wednesday with journalists on the chances of APC in the election. Edo NBA denies endorsing Ize-Iyamu Edo governorship: Sensitive materials arrive Edo It would be recalled that Idaiye was removed as deputy speaker after endorsing APC candidate, Pastor Ize-Iyamu. He said APC would win in his constituency because there was no tangible project carried out in the area in the last four years. The lawmaker, who denied collecting N40 million to remain in APC, described the allegation as politics taken too far. He, however, advised the electorate to come out en masse to vote, expressing confidence that the election would be devoid of violence following the deployment of security officers. Similarly, a member of the National Caucus of the ruling APC, Chief Sam Nkire, has predicted victory for his party in the governorship election taking place in Edo State this Saturday. Chief Nkire, who is a one-time national chairman of the Progressive People’s Alliance (PPA) which ruled Abia and Imo states between 2007 and 2011, however, said the win was likely to be narrow, adding, “a win is a win”. The APC chieftain was also of the opinion that all those who believed that Edo State was still a ‘PDP State’, were living in the past, adding that the last two governors of the state were APC members. Nkire said those who are conversant with the politics of Edo State know that the only way the PDP could win was through electoral malpractice, without which the APC was sure to carry the day. Chief Nkire maintained that although the Edo State governorship election was not a do-or-die affair for APC as it seems with the PDP, his party would govern Edo State one more time.