The President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem, has announced the opening of the Edo State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal in Benin over the just concluded governorship election in the state. A statement signed by the secretary of the tribunal, Sunday Martins Esq, dated September 21, 2020, revealed the constitution of the panel in respect of the governorship election in the state. “The honourable Chief Judge of the state, Hon. Justice E.A. Edigin, has graciously approved the use of High Court Complex (Election Petition Court Hall), Sapele Road, Benin City for the tribunal exercise. The secretariat is now open,” the statement reads. Meanwhile, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has presented Certificates of Return to the winner of the September 19, 2020 governorship election in Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, and his running mate, Philip Shaibu. Governor Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) polled 307,955 votes to defeat Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who scored 223, 619 votes. Presenting the certificates in Benin on Tuesday, the national commissioner in charge of Edo, Rivers and Bayelsa states, May Agbamuche-Mbu, said it was a statutory obligation of the commission in fulfillment of the requirement of the Electoral Act. She commended all stakeholders and Edo people for their contributions and commitment to credible and peaceful elections in Edo. In his speech, Governor Obaseki lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for rising above partisan politics and allowing the people to choose who governs them. “Buhari would be remembered as father of democracy because he had a choice to make sure his party wins in the state but insisted the right thing be done,” he said. He called on former APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his main challenger at the poll, Ize-Iyamu, to join hands with him in moving the state forward. “I am using this opportunity to extend a hand of fellowship to my brother, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, and other colleagues in the APC, to work with us so that we can move Edo forward. “On a specific note, I want to use this occasion to call on Oshiomhole to come and join hands with me in building the house where he was part of the foundation laying. We have no malice, the only thing we disagreed on is the approach in moving Edo forward,” he said. Earlier, the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Johnson Alalibo, said the election, which has been adjudged as one of the best, shall remain in the annals of Nigeria’s history.  The President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem, has announced the opening of the Edo State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal in Benin over the just concluded governorship election in the state. A statement signed by the secretary of the tribunal, Sunday Martins Esq, dated September 21, 2020, revealed the constitution of the panel in respect of the governorship election in the state. “The honourable Chief Judge of the state, Hon. Justice E.A. Edigin, has graciously approved the use of High Court Complex (Election Petition Court Hall), Sapele Road, Benin City for the tribunal exercise. The secretariat is now open,” the statement reads. Meanwhile, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has presented Certificates of Return to the winner of the September 19, 2020 governorship election in Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, and his running mate, Philip Shaibu. Governor Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) polled 307,955 votes to defeat Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who scored 223, 619 votes. Presenting the certificates in Benin on Tuesday, the national commissioner in charge of Edo, Rivers and Bayelsa states, May Agbamuche-Mbu, said it was a statutory obligation of the commission in fulfillment of the requirement of the Electoral Act. She commended all stakeholders and Edo people for their contributions and commitment to credible and peaceful elections in Edo. In his speech, Governor Obaseki lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for rising above partisan politics and allowing the people to choose who governs them. “Buhari would be remembered as father of democracy because he had a choice to make sure his party wins in the state but insisted the right thing be done,” he said. He called on former APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his main challenger at the poll, Ize-Iyamu, to join hands with him in moving the state forward. “I am using this opportunity to extend a hand of fellowship to my brother, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, and other colleagues in the APC, to work with us so that we can move Edo forward. “On a specific note, I want to use this occasion to call on Oshiomhole to come and join hands with me in building the house where he was part of the foundation laying. We have no malice, the only thing we disagreed on is the approach in moving Edo forward,” he said. Earlier, the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Johnson Alalibo, said the election, which has been adjudged as one of the best, shall remain in the annals of Nigeria’s history. 