The Edo state deputy governor Philip Shaibu, said he is confident that governor Godwin Obaseki and the PDP will win the governorship election. He spoke after voting in Jattu, Etsako west local government area’s Ward 11, Unit 5 at 10:30am. “I am optimistic that we will win the election. You know I am a man of the people and we have a technocrat as a governor, people who ordinarily would not have come are out to vote are all here, so I am expecting bigger victory for us.” He said though he is satisfied with the turnout of voters but it would have been more if not for initial tension that followed the electioneering campaign. ” I have never lost an election; I am a grass root politician and a man of the people. The crowd would have been more than this but I think as times goes on, people will turn up for the election. “Don’t forget this is my community and whether there is gun shot or not they must stand by me.” He said at the moment, “the election is peaceful but we don’t know what will happen later. “But you know at this time of election, things are usually peaceful, thing get worse during collation of result,” he said. “I heard that in some strong hold of the governor, card readers are not working well but I am yet to confirm that,” he said The Edo state deputy governor Philip Shaibu, said he is confident that governor Godwin Obaseki and the PDP will win the governorship election. He spoke after voting in Jattu, Etsako west local government area’s Ward 11, Unit 5 at 10:30am. “I am optimistic that we will win the election. You know I am a man of the people and we have a technocrat as a governor, people who ordinarily would not have come are out to vote are all here, so I am expecting bigger victory for us.” He said though he is satisfied with the turnout of voters but it would have been more if not for initial tension that followed the electioneering campaign. ” I have never lost an election; I am a grass root politician and a man of the people. The crowd would have been more than this but I think as times goes on, people will turn up for the election. “Don’t forget this is my community and whether there is gun shot or not they must stand by me.” He said at the moment, “the election is peaceful but we don’t know what will happen later. “But you know at this time of election, things are usually peaceful, thing get worse during collation of result,” he said. “I heard that in some strong hold of the governor, card readers are not working well but I am yet to confirm that,” he said