A commercial motorcycle operator in Osogbo, Osun State, Joseph Oriyomi, was arraigned at a magistrate court on Thursday for allegedly exploiting two orphans sexually. The prosecutor, Inspector Adeoye Kayode, told the court that 37-year-old Oriyomi committed the offence at Salako Atiba Street, Stadium area, Osogbo, in 2016. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charge levelled against him. The magistrate, Ishola Omisade, granted him bail in the sum of N200,000, with one surety in like sum. Daily Trust learnt from the court sideline that Oriyomi had arranged with the older of the girls, after the death of the girls’ parents, that she would be residing in his home and he would be assisting her financially, in exchange for sex with him. It was gathered that the man later entered into the same arrangement with the younger girl and she also accepted the offer out of desperation to survive. Our correspondent learnt that the older girl gave birth to three children for Oriyomi, while the younger girl had two children for him. The elder sister was said to have died last Sunday from a strange illness and the younger girl also fell ill, while Oriyomi began to face serious problems, which forced him to locate the family members of the girls’ parents. A police source said it was the family members, alleging angrily that the commercial motorcyclist exploited the two blood sisters sexually, who invited the police and the defendant was arrested.  A commercial motorcycle operator in Osogbo, Osun State, Joseph Oriyomi, was arraigned at a magistrate court on Thursday for allegedly exploiting two orphans sexually. The prosecutor, Inspector Adeoye Kayode, told the court that 37-year-old Oriyomi committed the offence at Salako Atiba Street, Stadium area, Osogbo, in 2016. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charge levelled against him. The magistrate, Ishola Omisade, granted him bail in the sum of N200,000, with one surety in like sum. Daily Trust learnt from the court sideline that Oriyomi had arranged with the older of the girls, after the death of the girls’ parents, that she would be residing in his home and he would be assisting her financially, in exchange for sex with him. It was gathered that the man later entered into the same arrangement with the younger girl and she also accepted the offer out of desperation to survive. Our correspondent learnt that the older girl gave birth to three children for Oriyomi, while the younger girl had two children for him. The elder sister was said to have died last Sunday from a strange illness and the younger girl also fell ill, while Oriyomi began to face serious problems, which forced him to locate the family members of the girls’ parents. A police source said it was the family members, alleging angrily that the commercial motorcyclist exploited the two blood sisters sexually, who invited the police and the defendant was arrested. 