Justice Nicholas Oweibo sitting at a Federal High Court, Lagos, has ordered an interim forfeiture of a hotel, a Suzuki bus and other home appliances currently in possession of the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (SCIID) of the Nigeria Police, Panti, Lagos, over a suit alleging that the items were suspected to be proceeds of unlawful activities. The judge issued the order on Monday while granting an ex parte motion in support of an affidavit filed and argued before him by a police lawyer, Mr. Joseph Ebosereme. The police had in the suit asked the court for an interim forfeiture of the hotel, located at Awori Town, Lagos State; the Suzuki bus marked EPE 717 X2, two plasma televisions and two generators said to belong to Monday Uvi and Friday Joseph Eze, who were listed as respondents in the suit. Ebosereme also asked the court for an interim order prohibiting any disposal, tampering, conveyance, mortgage, lease, sale or alienating or otherwise of the asset/properties reasonably believed and suspected to be proceeds of unlawful activities. The police further asked the court for an interim order authorizing the Inspector-General of Police to appoint a competent person(s) or firm to manage the assets and properties named and described in the schedule of the application. There was also a request for an order compelling the two respondents named in the suit, or any other person who has interest in the properties sought to be forfeited, to appear before it within 14 days and give reasons why the items should not be finally forfeited to the Federal Government of Nigeria. Justice Oweibo, after listening to Ebosereme’s submission, granted the application “as prayed”. He adjourned further hearing on the matter till October 7, 2020.  Justice Nicholas Oweibo sitting at a Federal High Court, Lagos, has ordered an interim forfeiture of a hotel, a Suzuki bus and other home appliances currently in possession of the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (SCIID) of the Nigeria Police, Panti, Lagos, over a suit alleging that the items were suspected to be proceeds of unlawful activities. The judge issued the order on Monday while granting an ex parte motion in support of an affidavit filed and argued before him by a police lawyer, Mr. Joseph Ebosereme. The police had in the suit asked the court for an interim forfeiture of the hotel, located at Awori Town, Lagos State; the Suzuki bus marked EPE 717 X2, two plasma televisions and two generators said to belong to Monday Uvi and Friday Joseph Eze, who were listed as respondents in the suit. Ebosereme also asked the court for an interim order prohibiting any disposal, tampering, conveyance, mortgage, lease, sale or alienating or otherwise of the asset/properties reasonably believed and suspected to be proceeds of unlawful activities. The police further asked the court for an interim order authorizing the Inspector-General of Police to appoint a competent person(s) or firm to manage the assets and properties named and described in the schedule of the application. There was also a request for an order compelling the two respondents named in the suit, or any other person who has interest in the properties sought to be forfeited, to appear before it within 14 days and give reasons why the items should not be finally forfeited to the Federal Government of Nigeria. Justice Oweibo, after listening to Ebosereme’s submission, granted the application “as prayed”. He adjourned further hearing on the matter till October 7, 2020. 