The Ekiti State Security Network Board has disclosed that 325 successful candidates shortlisted from the 3,261 applicants invited for the just-concluded screening exercise to recruit Amotekun corps members will commence training on Sunday, September 27, and will last till October 19, 2020. The Amotekun Corps Commander in the state, retired brigadier-general, Joe Komolafe, who announced this to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti, said those who scaled through the screening hurdle would report for training at the Ekiti State University, Ifaki-Ekiti campus, on September 27. Komolafe advised the candidates to resume camping within the stipulated period warning that there would be no further registration after the cut-off date of midnight Wednesday, September 30, 2020. He added that only successful candidates whose names appeared on the Amotekun website should come to the training camp with two white T-shirts, two white PT shorts, two pairs of white canvas shoes, hand sanitizers, face masks and toiletries. Komolafe explained that some of the applicants were screened out for non-provision of attestation letters from traditional rulers, physical features, tattoo marks and alterations, as well as falsification of documents. He expressed optimism that with the recruitment of the corps members, the spate of insecurity in the state would be reduced to the barest minimum, urging crime-minded elements to steer clear of the state or face their waterloo.  The Ekiti State Security Network Board has disclosed that 325 successful candidates shortlisted from the 3,261 applicants invited for the just-concluded screening exercise to recruit Amotekun corps members will commence training on Sunday, September 27, and will last till October 19, 2020. The Amotekun Corps Commander in the state, retired brigadier-general, Joe Komolafe, who announced this to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti, said those who scaled through the screening hurdle would report for training at the Ekiti State University, Ifaki-Ekiti campus, on September 27. Komolafe advised the candidates to resume camping within the stipulated period warning that there would be no further registration after the cut-off date of midnight Wednesday, September 30, 2020. He added that only successful candidates whose names appeared on the Amotekun website should come to the training camp with two white T-shirts, two white PT shorts, two pairs of white canvas shoes, hand sanitizers, face masks and toiletries. Komolafe explained that some of the applicants were screened out for non-provision of attestation letters from traditional rulers, physical features, tattoo marks and alterations, as well as falsification of documents. He expressed optimism that with the recruitment of the corps members, the spate of insecurity in the state would be reduced to the barest minimum, urging crime-minded elements to steer clear of the state or face their waterloo. 