Operatives of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested four persons for ‘being in possession of a human skull.’ The suspects – Niyi Folorunso and his wife, Remilekun; Muyideen Tolubi and Taiwo Sonubi – were arrested following a report received by the Odogbolu police divisional headquarters. A statement the Command’s spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, issued on Monday in Abeokuta said the suspects were arrested on September 24, 2020. Oyeyemi said the police had received information that some people were digging a grave with the aim of removing the corpse of a person who was not related in anyway to them. He added that following receipt of the report, the Divisional Police Officer, Odogbolu division, Afolabi Yusuf, led detectives to the scene, but the suspects had allegedly removed the head of the corpse and fled. The police spokesman said intense investigation then led to the arrest of the couple and Tolubi. “The three of them confessed to be the persons that dug the grave and removed the head of the corpse. They later took detectives to Ikenne, where the fourth person who asked them to bring the head for ritual purpose was apprehended,” he said. Oyeyemi added that the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and prosecution. Operatives of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested four persons for ‘being in possession of a human skull.’ The suspects – Niyi Folorunso and his wife, Remilekun; Muyideen Tolubi and Taiwo Sonubi – were arrested following a report received by the Odogbolu police divisional headquarters. A statement the Command’s spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, issued on Monday in Abeokuta said the suspects were arrested on September 24, 2020. Oyeyemi said the police had received information that some people were digging a grave with the aim of removing the corpse of a person who was not related in anyway to them. He added that following receipt of the report, the Divisional Police Officer, Odogbolu division, Afolabi Yusuf, led detectives to the scene, but the suspects had allegedly removed the head of the corpse and fled. The police spokesman said intense investigation then led to the arrest of the couple and Tolubi. “The three of them confessed to be the persons that dug the grave and removed the head of the corpse. They later took detectives to Ikenne, where the fourth person who asked them to bring the head for ritual purpose was apprehended,” he said. Oyeyemi added that the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and prosecution.