Galaxy Backbone (GBB), a federal agency, said it has connected 90 per cent of the government’s Ministries, Departments and Agencies to the fibre optics cable. The Managing Director, Prof Muhammad Bello Abubakar, disclosed this in Abuja yesterday. He said the connection to fibre optic cable would enable the MDAs to have ultra-fast internet which will enhance their e-government capabilities. The MD, who was represented by GBB’s Group Head of Business Development department, Abdul-Malik Suleiman, also said they have started another round of network reengineering in readiness for full blown e-government in the country. “We are stepping up the harmonisation of the consumption of technology services to enhance service delivery across the MDAs,” he said. He said the coronavirus pandemic had fast-tracked the world of digital technologies and compelled the government to focus more on e-government. Though he noted that some MDAs still faced some challenges as regards getting the last mile from GBB’s fibre optic points to their respective organisations, he assured that the agency had resolved to tackle the challenges. He promised that the agency would continue to provide effective communication and digital services that would help the federal government and its agencies function and take decisions that would lead to the development of the nation.  Galaxy Backbone (GBB), a federal agency, said it has connected 90 per cent of the government’s Ministries, Departments and Agencies to the fibre optics cable. The Managing Director, Prof Muhammad Bello Abubakar, disclosed this in Abuja yesterday. He said the connection to fibre optic cable would enable the MDAs to have ultra-fast internet which will enhance their e-government capabilities. The MD, who was represented by GBB’s Group Head of Business Development department, Abdul-Malik Suleiman, also said they have started another round of network reengineering in readiness for full blown e-government in the country. “We are stepping up the harmonisation of the consumption of technology services to enhance service delivery across the MDAs,” he said. He said the coronavirus pandemic had fast-tracked the world of digital technologies and compelled the government to focus more on e-government. Though he noted that some MDAs still faced some challenges as regards getting the last mile from GBB’s fibre optic points to their respective organisations, he assured that the agency had resolved to tackle the challenges. He promised that the agency would continue to provide effective communication and digital services that would help the federal government and its agencies function and take decisions that would lead to the development of the nation. 