The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has released grains, under its buffer stock programme, to help ameliorate hardships faced by the less privileged residents. At the flag-off ceremony of the 2020 Buffer Stock Programme, held at the FCT Agro-Service Centre, the Acting Secretary of the Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat, Mr Ibe Prospect Chukwuemeka, disclosed that buffer stock is a programme practised globally to ensure availability of grains year-round to the public at affordable rates. On the ‘Adopt a Library Initiative’ for FCT FCT resident doctors suspend strike, join national one Chukwuemeka, who was represented by the Director, Agricultural Services in the Secretariat, Dr Nkem Akanegbu, stressed that the (FCTA) is determined to cushion the effects of COVID-19 on FCT residents in food supply. She called on residents interested in purchasing the grains to visit all FCT Agric Stores in the area councils and appealed to them to be orderly and abide by the COVID-19 safety protocols. According to a statement by the Deputy Director, Information of the Secretariat, Alhaji Zakari Aliyu, the FCTA released funds which enabled the Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat to mop-up excess grains from FCT farmers during harvest, when the grains were cheap and preserved them for sale to the public during planting season when the grains are usually scarce and costly. On the price of the grains, Dr Akanegbu disclosed that a bag of 50kg maize will be sold at N3,000, same as a 50kg bag of guinea corn, while a 10kg bag of corn flour goes for N1,500. The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has released grains, under its buffer stock programme, to help ameliorate hardships faced by the less privileged residents. At the flag-off ceremony of the 2020 Buffer Stock Programme, held at the FCT Agro-Service Centre, the Acting Secretary of the Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat, Mr Ibe Prospect Chukwuemeka, disclosed that buffer stock is a programme practised globally to ensure availability of grains year-round to the public at affordable rates. On the ‘Adopt a Library Initiative’ for FCT FCT resident doctors suspend strike, join national one Chukwuemeka, who was represented by the Director, Agricultural Services in the Secretariat, Dr Nkem Akanegbu, stressed that the (FCTA) is determined to cushion the effects of COVID-19 on FCT residents in food supply. She called on residents interested in purchasing the grains to visit all FCT Agric Stores in the area councils and appealed to them to be orderly and abide by the COVID-19 safety protocols. According to a statement by the Deputy Director, Information of the Secretariat, Alhaji Zakari Aliyu, the FCTA released funds which enabled the Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat to mop-up excess grains from FCT farmers during harvest, when the grains were cheap and preserved them for sale to the public during planting season when the grains are usually scarce and costly. On the price of the grains, Dr Akanegbu disclosed that a bag of 50kg maize will be sold at N3,000, same as a 50kg bag of guinea corn, while a 10kg bag of corn flour goes for N1,500.