The indigenes of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has demanded the recognition of Abuja as a state on its own. The indigenes, under the aegis of Original Inhabitants Development Association of Abuja (OIDA), made the demand in a memorandum submitted to the Senate ad hoc committee on Constitution Review. Abuja Nigeria’s symbol of unity – FCT Minister FCTA to demolish 140 illegal structures in Abuja communities The 45-page memorandum was signed by OIDA President, Pastor Danladi Jeji. The Federal Capital Territory, they said, should be constitutionally administered by  an elected Governor, while Federal Capital City (FCC) should be recognised with mayoral status. They also demanded for six federal constituencies as against the present two, and three Senatorial Districts as against the existing one. Other demands are additional 11 local government councils to be added to the existing six Area Councils and ministerial slot for the indigenes as applicable to indigenes of the other 36 states of the federation. The indigenes of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has demanded the recognition of Abuja as a state on its own. The indigenes, under the aegis of Original Inhabitants Development Association of Abuja (OIDA), made the demand in a memorandum submitted to the Senate ad hoc committee on Constitution Review. Abuja Nigeria’s symbol of unity – FCT Minister FCTA to demolish 140 illegal structures in Abuja communities The 45-page memorandum was signed by OIDA President, Pastor Danladi Jeji. The Federal Capital Territory, they said, should be constitutionally administered by  an elected Governor, while Federal Capital City (FCC) should be recognised with mayoral status. They also demanded for six federal constituencies as against the present two, and three Senatorial Districts as against the existing one. Other demands are additional 11 local government councils to be added to the existing six Area Councils and ministerial slot for the indigenes as applicable to indigenes of the other 36 states of the federation.