Detectives attached to the Zone 2 Command, Onikan, comprising Lagos and Ogun states, have arrested six kidnap suspects for allegedly abducting a female police Inspector and a Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) official. The suspects were also alleged to have abducted two businessmen in Ogun and Oyo states. Adamawa police parade 36 for kidnapping, armed robbery, rape Abuja kidnapping: How I trekked for 6km – Pregnant victim Those arrested are Adamu Saliu, 25; Ibrahim Mohammed, 33; Abubakar Sadiq, 24; Tambaye Mohammed, 25; Adamu Sulaiman, 38, and Akanni Musa. The Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG), Zone 2, Ahmed Iliyasu, told journalists on Wednesday in Lagos that the kidnap gang comprised three different groups of young men, who he said had records of kidnappings and killings in the Southwest zone. Iliyasu alleged that the suspects recently kidnapped the serving policewoman and the NSCDC operative and collected ransom before setting them free. He said it was discovered during interrogation that the suspects mounted a road block on the Ayetoro-Abeokuta road on May 4, 2020 at about 5.25pm, into which the policewoman ran. “While they were manhandling her, the driver of a car coming behind attempted to escape their onslaught but paid with his life. “These heartless animals in human skin targeted the driver and opened fire on him. Sadly, their bullets hit him and he died. “The other female occupant of the vehicle and the woman Inspector were kidnapped and taken into a forest for three days before they were released after their relatives paid ransoms. “In the case of the NSCDC official, identified as Are, he kept some cattle in the custody of one of these boys to graze. “It was this employee of his that gave him out to the gang. “He was kidnapped on his way to the farm at Eggua, in Yewa North Local Government, Ogun State. “He was held in captivity for three days in the forest before he regained his freedom on the payment of a N3 million ransom,” the AIG said. Detectives attached to the Zone 2 Command, Onikan, comprising Lagos and Ogun states, have arrested six kidnap suspects for allegedly abducting a female police Inspector and a Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) official. The suspects were also alleged to have abducted two businessmen in Ogun and Oyo states. Adamawa police parade 36 for kidnapping, armed robbery, rape Abuja kidnapping: How I trekked for 6km – Pregnant victim Those arrested are Adamu Saliu, 25; Ibrahim Mohammed, 33; Abubakar Sadiq, 24; Tambaye Mohammed, 25; Adamu Sulaiman, 38, and Akanni Musa. The Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG), Zone 2, Ahmed Iliyasu, told journalists on Wednesday in Lagos that the kidnap gang comprised three different groups of young men, who he said had records of kidnappings and killings in the Southwest zone. Iliyasu alleged that the suspects recently kidnapped the serving policewoman and the NSCDC operative and collected ransom before setting them free. He said it was discovered during interrogation that the suspects mounted a road block on the Ayetoro-Abeokuta road on May 4, 2020 at about 5.25pm, into which the policewoman ran. “While they were manhandling her, the driver of a car coming behind attempted to escape their onslaught but paid with his life. “These heartless animals in human skin targeted the driver and opened fire on him. Sadly, their bullets hit him and he died. “The other female occupant of the vehicle and the woman Inspector were kidnapped and taken into a forest for three days before they were released after their relatives paid ransoms. “In the case of the NSCDC official, identified as Are, he kept some cattle in the custody of one of these boys to graze. “It was this employee of his that gave him out to the gang. “He was kidnapped on his way to the farm at Eggua, in Yewa North Local Government, Ogun State. “He was held in captivity for three days in the forest before he regained his freedom on the payment of a N3 million ransom,” the AIG said.