Edo state Governor Godwin Obaseki has lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for defending democracy by allowing the lndependent Electoral Commission, INEC, and the security services to perform their constitutional functions without interference. Obaseki who gave the commendation in his acceptance speech after he was declared winner, said INEC and the security agents have shown Nigerians and the world that they are capable of conducting free, fair and credible elections. He said, “Words fails me in saluting the teaming supporters who displayed courage in the face of fierce intimidation and brutalisation.”. He noted that the collective will of Edo people made it possible for him and the state to triumph over godfatherism. ” I am eternally grateful to my party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), and my brother-governors, not only for giving us the umbrella during our political storm, but for the hard works which has brought me back as governor,” he noted. He said his victory has reinforced his belief that there is Nigerians could not achieve as a people. Edo state Governor Godwin Obaseki has lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for defending democracy by allowing the lndependent Electoral Commission, INEC, and the security services to perform their constitutional functions without interference. Obaseki who gave the commendation in his acceptance speech after he was declared winner, said INEC and the security agents have shown Nigerians and the world that they are capable of conducting free, fair and credible elections. He said, “Words fails me in saluting the teaming supporters who displayed courage in the face of fierce intimidation and brutalisation.”. He noted that the collective will of Edo people made it possible for him and the state to triumph over godfatherism. ” I am eternally grateful to my party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), and my brother-governors, not only for giving us the umbrella during our political storm, but for the hard works which has brought me back as governor,” he noted. He said his victory has reinforced his belief that there is Nigerians could not achieve as a people.