Ahead of Saturday’s governorship election in Edo State, the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, has warned the staff and ad-hoc staff of the commission to remain above board in the performance of their duties. He said on Friday in Abuja that all INEC staff for the election must ensure that no political party or candidate is accorded any advantage over the other. He warned them to be neutral at all times and stick strictly to the commission’s Code of Conduct and Oath of Neutrality to which they have all subscribed. “As we begin the final countdown to the Edo Governorship Election, it is clear that all eyes are on the INEC to deliver a free, fair and credible process. I have no doubt that our staff members will rise to the occasion. We have done it several times before and we can do it again,” Yakubu said. He said that the commission appreciates the never-ending sacrifices made by its staff at all times, often beyond the call of duty, to ensure that the commission carry out its mandate. He assured that the commission’s management will continue to improve the welfare and conditions of service of staff within the available resources. “Let me appeal to all of you to remain steadfast and committed to the ideals of the commission Nigerians and the international community expect so much from us. They are watching. It is important that we all remain above board in the performance of our respective duties. “We must ensure that no political party or candidate is accorded any advantage over the other. We must be neutral at all times and stick strictly to our Code of Conduct and Oath of Neutrality to which we have all subscribed. For, at the end of the day, we would have all contributed to the sustenance of democracy and a strong electoral process that all Nigerians can trust,” Yakubu said. Ahead of Saturday’s governorship election in Edo State, the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, has warned the staff and ad-hoc staff of the commission to remain above board in the performance of their duties. He said on Friday in Abuja that all INEC staff for the election must ensure that no political party or candidate is accorded any advantage over the other. He warned them to be neutral at all times and stick strictly to the commission’s Code of Conduct and Oath of Neutrality to which they have all subscribed. “As we begin the final countdown to the Edo Governorship Election, it is clear that all eyes are on the INEC to deliver a free, fair and credible process. I have no doubt that our staff members will rise to the occasion. We have done it several times before and we can do it again,” Yakubu said. He said that the commission appreciates the never-ending sacrifices made by its staff at all times, often beyond the call of duty, to ensure that the commission carry out its mandate. He assured that the commission’s management will continue to improve the welfare and conditions of service of staff within the available resources. “Let me appeal to all of you to remain steadfast and committed to the ideals of the commission Nigerians and the international community expect so much from us. They are watching. It is important that we all remain above board in the performance of our respective duties. “We must ensure that no political party or candidate is accorded any advantage over the other. We must be neutral at all times and stick strictly to our Code of Conduct and Oath of Neutrality to which we have all subscribed. For, at the end of the day, we would have all contributed to the sustenance of democracy and a strong electoral process that all Nigerians can trust,” Yakubu said.