A political movement, BAT 23, has been flagged-off in Abuja to canvas support for the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, ahead of the 2023 general election. Tinubu is said to be warming up to contest the number one seat in the country on the platform of the APC. Why I distanced myself from Ondo APC primaries- Tinubu What my selection as campaign chair means to Tinubu, Akeredolu – Sanwo-Olu The National Coordinator of the Movement, Umar Inusa, said, during its flag-off at the weekend in Abuja, that the BAT 23, consisted of Tinubu’s supporters who were drawn from across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Inusa explained that the movement was formed to root for Tinubu, ahead of the 2023 presidential election. He said that Tinubu is a highly experienced leader with the required political tact to take over from where President Muhammadu Buhari would stop in 2023. “Tinubu is a leader who transforms nothing into something and feeds his people from the riches of what has been so transformed. “In his time as Lagos state governor, staff salaries, developmental projects, philanthropic activities never stopped. “Now, think about the bigger picture here. “If he did that in Lagos and we never heard Lagos state going into recession at the time, what if he had the whole country struggling to manage her abundant resources? “Let us ponder upon that. “That is the man of calibre and pedigree, a charismatic and selfless leader we pray to canvass support to pilot the affairs of this nation and take it to the promised land,” he added. Tinubu, from the Southwest region of Nigeria, has been strategising to become the President of the country for a while. He has supported the present government all through and is expecting to be compensated with the top position in the country by his party come 2023. His party, APC, is contemplating zoning the position of the president to the Southern part of the country after a two-term tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari, who is from Katsina State in the Northern part of Nigeria. Zoning has been adopted by political parties in Nigeria over the years to ensure that the presidency rotates between the Southern and Northern parts of the country. A political movement, BAT 23, has been flagged-off in Abuja to canvas support for the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, ahead of the 2023 general election. Tinubu is said to be warming up to contest the number one seat in the country on the platform of the APC. Why I distanced myself from Ondo APC primaries- Tinubu What my selection as campaign chair means to Tinubu, Akeredolu – Sanwo-Olu The National Coordinator of the Movement, Umar Inusa, said, during its flag-off at the weekend in Abuja, that the BAT 23, consisted of Tinubu’s supporters who were drawn from across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Inusa explained that the movement was formed to root for Tinubu, ahead of the 2023 presidential election. He said that Tinubu is a highly experienced leader with the required political tact to take over from where President Muhammadu Buhari would stop in 2023. “Tinubu is a leader who transforms nothing into something and feeds his people from the riches of what has been so transformed. “In his time as Lagos state governor, staff salaries, developmental projects, philanthropic activities never stopped. “Now, think about the bigger picture here. “If he did that in Lagos and we never heard Lagos state going into recession at the time, what if he had the whole country struggling to manage her abundant resources? “Let us ponder upon that. “That is the man of calibre and pedigree, a charismatic and selfless leader we pray to canvass support to pilot the affairs of this nation and take it to the promised land,” he added. Tinubu, from the Southwest region of Nigeria, has been strategising to become the President of the country for a while. He has supported the present government all through and is expecting to be compensated with the top position in the country by his party come 2023. His party, APC, is contemplating zoning the position of the president to the Southern part of the country after a two-term tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari, who is from Katsina State in the Northern part of Nigeria. Zoning has been adopted by political parties in Nigeria over the years to ensure that the presidency rotates between the Southern and Northern parts of the country.