The Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), in conjunction with the Edo State Civil Society Organisation (EDOCSO), has called on the federal government to set up electoral malpractices mobile court to deal with electoral offenders. TMG chairman, Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi made the call in Benin City while briefing journalists on its observation during the electioneering campaign for the Edo state governorship election. She said the mobile court became necessary in view of persistent electoral offences and to strengthen democracy. “The Mobile Court when established will try electoral malpractices offenders during electioneering campaign and on election day,” she said. She added that this would deter people from engaging in electoral malpractices, violence and ensure that election was free, fair, peaceful and credible. Dr Afolabi disclosed that the group will deploy 150 observers across the 18 local governments to monitor the polls. “Throughout Election Day, TMG’s observers will closely watch the process and complete our election checklist provided by recording answers to the questions on the conduct of the election (set up of polling units, accreditation and voting as well as counting of ballots). She called on the security agents and Independent National Electoral Commission to neutral and non partisan, noting that INEC has no reason to fail because it has enough time to prepare for the election. She however urged the electorate to go out on Saturday and vote for the candidate of their choice without fear or intimidation. Dr. Afolabi lamented that politicians have turned campaigns and rallies to theatre of war while places like Oredo and Iyamho in Edo South and Edo North local governments respectively, have become political hotspots especially with unlawful movement of armed thugs. The Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), in conjunction with the Edo State Civil Society Organisation (EDOCSO), has called on the federal government to set up electoral malpractices mobile court to deal with electoral offenders. TMG chairman, Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi made the call in Benin City while briefing journalists on its observation during the electioneering campaign for the Edo state governorship election. She said the mobile court became necessary in view of persistent electoral offences and to strengthen democracy. “The Mobile Court when established will try electoral malpractices offenders during electioneering campaign and on election day,” she said. She added that this would deter people from engaging in electoral malpractices, violence and ensure that election was free, fair, peaceful and credible. Dr Afolabi disclosed that the group will deploy 150 observers across the 18 local governments to monitor the polls. “Throughout Election Day, TMG’s observers will closely watch the process and complete our election checklist provided by recording answers to the questions on the conduct of the election (set up of polling units, accreditation and voting as well as counting of ballots). She called on the security agents and Independent National Electoral Commission to neutral and non partisan, noting that INEC has no reason to fail because it has enough time to prepare for the election. She however urged the electorate to go out on Saturday and vote for the candidate of their choice without fear or intimidation. Dr. Afolabi lamented that politicians have turned campaigns and rallies to theatre of war while places like Oredo and Iyamho in Edo South and Edo North local governments respectively, have become political hotspots especially with unlawful movement of armed thugs.