Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II on Tuesday, congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki on his victory in Saturday’s governorship election. The monarch also hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for ensuring that the Edo election was free, fair and violence-free. He also commended all governorship candidates in the election for adhering to the advice on peaceful election. The Oba, in a statement signed by the palace secretary, Frank Irabor, urged the people of the state to support the governor in his developmental strides. “As his royal majesty said on numerous occasions, the Benin throne is non-partisan and that on election day let the people speak because the voice of the people is the voice of God,” the statement partly read. Similarly, a former governor and chieftain of the PDP in Ekiti State, Engr Segun Oni, said on Tuesday that the re-election of Governor Obaseki showed that people’s power is mightier than any power in political pursuit. Oni, in a release, congratulated Obaseki for his resounding victory and urged him to heed the words of wisdom by being magnanimous in victory. The PDP stalwart advised the re-elected governor to deploy his energy to give the Edo electorate who acted as defenders of democracy the requisite gains of their hard-fought battle rather than dissipating such to fighting his political adversaries. Also reacting, the Acting Caretaker Committee Chairman of the APC in Rivers State, Hon. Igochukwu Aguma, said the outcome of Saturday’s governorship election in Edo State is big lesson to godfathers in the state to desist from trying to dictate for the party according to their will. Aguma said this in a statement issued by his media adviser, Livingstone Wechie. Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II on Tuesday, congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki on his victory in Saturday’s governorship election. The monarch also hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for ensuring that the Edo election was free, fair and violence-free. He also commended all governorship candidates in the election for adhering to the advice on peaceful election. The Oba, in a statement signed by the palace secretary, Frank Irabor, urged the people of the state to support the governor in his developmental strides. “As his royal majesty said on numerous occasions, the Benin throne is non-partisan and that on election day let the people speak because the voice of the people is the voice of God,” the statement partly read. Similarly, a former governor and chieftain of the PDP in Ekiti State, Engr Segun Oni, said on Tuesday that the re-election of Governor Obaseki showed that people’s power is mightier than any power in political pursuit. Oni, in a release, congratulated Obaseki for his resounding victory and urged him to heed the words of wisdom by being magnanimous in victory. The PDP stalwart advised the re-elected governor to deploy his energy to give the Edo electorate who acted as defenders of democracy the requisite gains of their hard-fought battle rather than dissipating such to fighting his political adversaries. Also reacting, the Acting Caretaker Committee Chairman of the APC in Rivers State, Hon. Igochukwu Aguma, said the outcome of Saturday’s governorship election in Edo State is big lesson to godfathers in the state to desist from trying to dictate for the party according to their will. Aguma said this in a statement issued by his media adviser, Livingstone Wechie.