The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) says arrangements have been concluded to ensure that Eagle Square, venue of this year’s independence celebration, is safe in strict compliance with the COVID-19 safety protocols. The Permanent Secretary, Mr Olusade Adesola, who made this known on Wednesday, led a delegation of the management staff of the FCTA and FCDA to Eagle Square to ascertain the level of preparedness to host the national event. Independence anniversary celebration to last one year – FG Nigeria’s 60th independence: Institute to assess conditions of buildings “We are leaving no stone unturned in our efforts to ensure that no participant contracts the novel coronavirus during the forthcoming Independence Day anniversary,” he said. Adesola expressed satisfaction with the state of facilities, including restrooms, holding rooms and seats, assuring participants of top-notch celebration. “I am quite impressed with what I have seen. “Everyone that is involved in the process has great enthusiasm to ensure that we deliver a very exciting celebration this year. “The facilities are in very good condition. “We went round to see the toilet facilities, the holding rooms and the sitting arrangements,” he added. He added, “AS we are currently dealing with a situation of COVID-19 infestation and we have to observe the protocols, we are making arrangement to ensure that everybody that will attend does so without any fear of contracting any disease here.” The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) says arrangements have been concluded to ensure that Eagle Square, venue of this year’s independence celebration, is safe in strict compliance with the COVID-19 safety protocols. The Permanent Secretary, Mr Olusade Adesola, who made this known on Wednesday, led a delegation of the management staff of the FCTA and FCDA to Eagle Square to ascertain the level of preparedness to host the national event. Independence anniversary celebration to last one year – FG Nigeria’s 60th independence: Institute to assess conditions of buildings “We are leaving no stone unturned in our efforts to ensure that no participant contracts the novel coronavirus during the forthcoming Independence Day anniversary,” he said. Adesola expressed satisfaction with the state of facilities, including restrooms, holding rooms and seats, assuring participants of top-notch celebration. “I am quite impressed with what I have seen. “Everyone that is involved in the process has great enthusiasm to ensure that we deliver a very exciting celebration this year. “The facilities are in very good condition. “We went round to see the toilet facilities, the holding rooms and the sitting arrangements,” he added. He added, “AS we are currently dealing with a situation of COVID-19 infestation and we have to observe the protocols, we are making arrangement to ensure that everybody that will attend does so without any fear of contracting any disease here.”