The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has issued a warning to airline operators over what it called non-compliance with COVID-19 protocols, noting they could be barred. In the All Operators Letter (DG39/20) with reference NCAA/ DG/AIR/11/16/267 dated September 21, 2020, the Director-General, Capt. Musa Nuhu said operators were given COVID-19 protocols on September 4, and Advisory Circular (AC) NCAA-AC-AMS-006 same day. “Approval for the resumption of domestic operations are predicated on compliance with the above protocols. This is a warning to all domestic operators who are not in compliance to desist from such acts immediately. The continuous non-compliance with the COVID-19 protocols will attract severe penalties up to and including cancellation of approval to resume domestic operators.” Daily Trust reports that domestic flights resumed on July 8 after three months of shutdown with strict COVID-19 protocols put in place. Some of the airlines contacted by our correspondent insist that they have been diligent in their compliance with the protocols. Spokesman of Dana Air, Kingsley Ezenwa, said, “We have been very up to date because we see their reports and we also monitor the supervisors.” Air Peace, through its Communications Manager, Stanley Olisa, said: “We observe the protocols. Our passengers, staff continue to observe all the measures whether pre-flight, in-flight and post-flight too. Passengers are complying, our staff also know the implication of not complying.” The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has issued a warning to airline operators over what it called non-compliance with COVID-19 protocols, noting they could be barred. In the All Operators Letter (DG39/20) with reference NCAA/ DG/AIR/11/16/267 dated September 21, 2020, the Director-General, Capt. Musa Nuhu said operators were given COVID-19 protocols on September 4, and Advisory Circular (AC) NCAA-AC-AMS-006 same day. “Approval for the resumption of domestic operations are predicated on compliance with the above protocols. This is a warning to all domestic operators who are not in compliance to desist from such acts immediately. The continuous non-compliance with the COVID-19 protocols will attract severe penalties up to and including cancellation of approval to resume domestic operators.” Daily Trust reports that domestic flights resumed on July 8 after three months of shutdown with strict COVID-19 protocols put in place. Some of the airlines contacted by our correspondent insist that they have been diligent in their compliance with the protocols. Spokesman of Dana Air, Kingsley Ezenwa, said, “We have been very up to date because we see their reports and we also monitor the supervisors.” Air Peace, through its Communications Manager, Stanley Olisa, said: “We observe the protocols. Our passengers, staff continue to observe all the measures whether pre-flight, in-flight and post-flight too. Passengers are complying, our staff also know the implication of not complying.”