An Ibadan-based businesswoman, Soliu Temitope on Monday told a customary court sitting in Mapo, Ibadan, that her husband, Hammed preferred to use his money to buy alcoholic drinks for his friends to buying food for her and their child. Temitope, who had petitioned for divorce, alleged that she and the child had slept at night many times hungry “as there was no food for us to eat, while my husband would be buying drinks for his friends without thinking of his home.” The petitioner declared, “I am tired of this marriage to my husband. He beats me all the time. He is a drunkard. I cannot recollect how many times my child has slept on an empty stomach because there was no money to buy food for him, while his father was busy buying drinks for his friends. The most annoying thing is that when you asked him, he would tell you that he cannot kill himself.” The respondent was, however, absent in court to defend himself on the allegations. The president of the court, Chief Ademola Odunade, dissolved the marriage, saying the court had adjourned the matter twice to avail Soliu the opportunity to present his own side of the story. Odunade granted custody of the two-year-old child in the marriage to the petitioner, with instructions that the respondent should ensure he pays the sum of N5,000 monthly for the upkeep of the child.  An Ibadan-based businesswoman, Soliu Temitope on Monday told a customary court sitting in Mapo, Ibadan, that her husband, Hammed preferred to use his money to buy alcoholic drinks for his friends to buying food for her and their child. Temitope, who had petitioned for divorce, alleged that she and the child had slept at night many times hungry “as there was no food for us to eat, while my husband would be buying drinks for his friends without thinking of his home.” The petitioner declared, “I am tired of this marriage to my husband. He beats me all the time. He is a drunkard. I cannot recollect how many times my child has slept on an empty stomach because there was no money to buy food for him, while his father was busy buying drinks for his friends. The most annoying thing is that when you asked him, he would tell you that he cannot kill himself.” The respondent was, however, absent in court to defend himself on the allegations. The president of the court, Chief Ademola Odunade, dissolved the marriage, saying the court had adjourned the matter twice to avail Soliu the opportunity to present his own side of the story. Odunade granted custody of the two-year-old child in the marriage to the petitioner, with instructions that the respondent should ensure he pays the sum of N5,000 monthly for the upkeep of the child. 