A Wuse Zone 6 Chief Magistrate Court in Abuja on Monday sentenced a bike rider, Mohammed Yakubu, to three months’ imprisonment for stealing his employer’s bike. The police had charged Yakubu, a resident of Mararaba in Nasarawa State, with committing theft. Yakubu, however, pleaded guilty to the charge and begged the court for leniency. Chief Magistrate Omolola Akindele sentenced him without an option of fine. Earlier, the prosecution counsel, ASP Peter Ejike, had told the court that the complainant, Isaac Chukwu, of House 5, Empire Estate in Dutse-Bminko, Abuja, reported the case to the Wuse Zone Three Police Divisional Headquarters on Sept. 3. Ejike also said the complainant, who was Yakubu’s employer, on Aug. 29 discovered that his bike was missing from where he had parked it. The prosecutor told the court that Yakubu also disappeared to an unknown destination until he was tracked down and arrested by the police at Mararaba, Nasarawa State. He added that the bike was recovered from Yakubu without the delivery box attached to it valued at N50,000. Ejike said other items missing were a protective helmet whose value was still unknown and the bike’s registration number plate. The prosecutor said a police extract was discovered in the possession of Yakubu. The prosecutor said that Yakubu obtained the extract by lying to the police at Mararaba that his bike’s original documents were stolen and he was issued the extract after he had given false information to the police. He said during police investigation, Yakubu confessed to committing the offence. The prosecutor said the offence contravened Section 287 of the Penal Code. (NAN)  A Wuse Zone 6 Chief Magistrate Court in Abuja on Monday sentenced a bike rider, Mohammed Yakubu, to three months’ imprisonment for stealing his employer’s bike. The police had charged Yakubu, a resident of Mararaba in Nasarawa State, with committing theft. Yakubu, however, pleaded guilty to the charge and begged the court for leniency. Chief Magistrate Omolola Akindele sentenced him without an option of fine. Earlier, the prosecution counsel, ASP Peter Ejike, had told the court that the complainant, Isaac Chukwu, of House 5, Empire Estate in Dutse-Bminko, Abuja, reported the case to the Wuse Zone Three Police Divisional Headquarters on Sept. 3. Ejike also said the complainant, who was Yakubu’s employer, on Aug. 29 discovered that his bike was missing from where he had parked it. The prosecutor told the court that Yakubu also disappeared to an unknown destination until he was tracked down and arrested by the police at Mararaba, Nasarawa State. He added that the bike was recovered from Yakubu without the delivery box attached to it valued at N50,000. Ejike said other items missing were a protective helmet whose value was still unknown and the bike’s registration number plate. The prosecutor said a police extract was discovered in the possession of Yakubu. The prosecutor said that Yakubu obtained the extract by lying to the police at Mararaba that his bike’s original documents were stolen and he was issued the extract after he had given false information to the police. He said during police investigation, Yakubu confessed to committing the offence. The prosecutor said the offence contravened Section 287 of the Penal Code. (NAN) 