The acting Managing Director of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), Engr. Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz has been appointed to head the International Council of Large Electric Networks West Africa National Committee (CIGRE- WANC) after its inauguration. The sub-regional committee is under the West African Power Pool (WAPP). Abdulaziz heads the committee in acting capacity. A statement by the TCN spokesperson, Ndidi Mbah, said the West African arm of the global community joined other national committees of the global body with headquarters in France. The global body has members from all over the world, comprising over 90 countries and about 1,250 corporate organisations. It has its office within the WAPP Secretariat, Cotonou, Benin Republic, and coordinates all the body’s activities in the 15 West African countries. However, the West African National Committee has a coordination desk at the TCN headquarters in Abuja. Member countries would benefit from resources across power generation, transmission and distribution, as well as manufacturers of electro-technical materials and equipment. The acting Managing Director of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), Engr. Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz has been appointed to head the International Council of Large Electric Networks West Africa National Committee (CIGRE- WANC) after its inauguration. The sub-regional committee is under the West African Power Pool (WAPP). Abdulaziz heads the committee in acting capacity. A statement by the TCN spokesperson, Ndidi Mbah, said the West African arm of the global community joined other national committees of the global body with headquarters in France. The global body has members from all over the world, comprising over 90 countries and about 1,250 corporate organisations. It has its office within the WAPP Secretariat, Cotonou, Benin Republic, and coordinates all the body’s activities in the 15 West African countries. However, the West African National Committee has a coordination desk at the TCN headquarters in Abuja. Member countries would benefit from resources across power generation, transmission and distribution, as well as manufacturers of electro-technical materials and equipment.