A woman lost her life in the early hours of Monday in an automobile accident along the Ado-Iworoko road, Abbatoir, Ekiti State, while she was crossing the road. The Ekiti State Police Command Public Relations Officer, Mr Sunday Abutu, confirming the woman’s death, said the Command rushed to the accident scene immediately it received information on it but discovered she was already dead. Our correspondent gathered at the scene of the accident that a Volvo S40 car, with registration number LAGOS KTU 280 DS allegedly on high speed, hit the woman as she was crossing the road. The accident dismembered one of her legs, while the car also somersaulted, with its windscreen shattered and the front tyre damaged in the process. Abutu said the body of the woman, whose name the police were yet to disclose had been deposited at the mortuary of the Ekiti State Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti. According to him, the suspect, who allegedly drove the car involved in the fatal accident, was in police custody.  A woman lost her life in the early hours of Monday in an automobile accident along the Ado-Iworoko road, Abbatoir, Ekiti State, while she was crossing the road. The Ekiti State Police Command Public Relations Officer, Mr Sunday Abutu, confirming the woman’s death, said the Command rushed to the accident scene immediately it received information on it but discovered she was already dead. Our correspondent gathered at the scene of the accident that a Volvo S40 car, with registration number LAGOS KTU 280 DS allegedly on high speed, hit the woman as she was crossing the road. The accident dismembered one of her legs, while the car also somersaulted, with its windscreen shattered and the front tyre damaged in the process. Abutu said the body of the woman, whose name the police were yet to disclose had been deposited at the mortuary of the Ekiti State Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti. According to him, the suspect, who allegedly drove the car involved in the fatal accident, was in police custody. 