One of the survivors of last Tuesday’s car crash that led to massive violent protest in Osogbo, Osun State, Abdusalaam Adekunle, said policemen attached to the Joint Task Force (JTF) pointed guns at him and his friends in the car while the vehicle was on motion. Adekunle, who drove the car with registration number KUJ 553 LY on the fateful day, told our correspondent from his hospital bed at the weekend that he became confused when he saw the guns and accelerated the car to avoid being killed by the JTF men. He said, “As I was driving, I saw the JTF men in the mirror pointing guns at us. They gave the impression they wanted to shoot us. I had to speed up so that they would not kill us. That was why the car summersaulted.” One of the four persons in the car, Idris Ajibola, died on the spot, while Adekunle and the two other persons who sustained serious injuries were rushed to a hospital. The incident led to a riot as a mob took their protest to the Government House, Osogbo, and dumped Ajibola’s corpse at its gate. Governor Gboyega Oyetola, in a statement by the state Commissioner for Information, Funke Egbemode, has ordered a probe of the incident. Also, a member of the House of Representative, Bamidele Salaam, urged the Inspector-General of Police to investigate the incident and ensure justice. The Executive Director, Crownrise Development Initiative, Ajala Adetunji, also condemning the incident, insisted it must be investigated and whoever found culpable must be brought to book. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Yemisi Opalola, told Daily Trust yesterday that the incident would be properly investigated.  One of the survivors of last Tuesday’s car crash that led to massive violent protest in Osogbo, Osun State, Abdusalaam Adekunle, said policemen attached to the Joint Task Force (JTF) pointed guns at him and his friends in the car while the vehicle was on motion. Adekunle, who drove the car with registration number KUJ 553 LY on the fateful day, told our correspondent from his hospital bed at the weekend that he became confused when he saw the guns and accelerated the car to avoid being killed by the JTF men. He said, “As I was driving, I saw the JTF men in the mirror pointing guns at us. They gave the impression they wanted to shoot us. I had to speed up so that they would not kill us. That was why the car summersaulted.” One of the four persons in the car, Idris Ajibola, died on the spot, while Adekunle and the two other persons who sustained serious injuries were rushed to a hospital. The incident led to a riot as a mob took their protest to the Government House, Osogbo, and dumped Ajibola’s corpse at its gate. Governor Gboyega Oyetola, in a statement by the state Commissioner for Information, Funke Egbemode, has ordered a probe of the incident. Also, a member of the House of Representative, Bamidele Salaam, urged the Inspector-General of Police to investigate the incident and ensure justice. The Executive Director, Crownrise Development Initiative, Ajala Adetunji, also condemning the incident, insisted it must be investigated and whoever found culpable must be brought to book. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Yemisi Opalola, told Daily Trust yesterday that the incident would be properly investigated. 