A member of the APC National Committee on Ondo State Gubernatorial Election, Mr Osita Okechukwu, has dismissed fears that the ruling APC may lose. Okechukwu, who spoke with journalists on Wednesday in Abuja said he harboured no fears because Governor Rotimi Akeredolu shared a lot in common with his counterpart in Edo State, Godwin Obaseki. “I don’t harbour any fears of APC losing Ondo State because their excellences, Akeredolu and Obaseki, share a lot in common. “One, they devoted much more resources in the past four years to physical infrastructural development than stomach infrastructure. This is why some elites are antagonistic to both. “Secondly, both diligently reconciled with their fellow gubernatorial aspirants within their parties thus going into the election with the spirit of internal democracy advantage. Thirdly, they both defeated same candidates in 2016 and one does not see the danger naysayers are hyping. “Fourthly, don’t forget that they are products of our great party, APC,” Okechuwu said. He also said the promise of President Muhammadu Buhari to uphold the best tenets of free and fair election, thereby “making the use of the proverbial federal might a mirage” was “a good omen for Nigerian democracy”.  A member of the APC National Committee on Ondo State Gubernatorial Election, Mr Osita Okechukwu, has dismissed fears that the ruling APC may lose. Okechukwu, who spoke with journalists on Wednesday in Abuja said he harboured no fears because Governor Rotimi Akeredolu shared a lot in common with his counterpart in Edo State, Godwin Obaseki. “I don’t harbour any fears of APC losing Ondo State because their excellences, Akeredolu and Obaseki, share a lot in common. “One, they devoted much more resources in the past four years to physical infrastructural development than stomach infrastructure. This is why some elites are antagonistic to both. “Secondly, both diligently reconciled with their fellow gubernatorial aspirants within their parties thus going into the election with the spirit of internal democracy advantage. Thirdly, they both defeated same candidates in 2016 and one does not see the danger naysayers are hyping. “Fourthly, don’t forget that they are products of our great party, APC,” Okechuwu said. He also said the promise of President Muhammadu Buhari to uphold the best tenets of free and fair election, thereby “making the use of the proverbial federal might a mirage” was “a good omen for Nigerian democracy”. 