The Management of Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited, operators of the Kainji and Jebba Hydro Power Plants in Niger state, has dismissed reports on social media that the Kainji Dam burst its banks. In a statement, it said: “This news is totally false. Our dam is in full operations and currently supplying power to the national grid. The fact that we are in full and normal operations can easily be confirmed from the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) and the National Control Centre (NCC) who are our dispatchers.” In the statement issued by the Head, Corporate Communications, Olugbenga Adebola, the firm said Kainji plant is carrying out water spillage exercise to regulate the water flow along the river Niger. “The dam reservoir is currently not at its fullest capacity and will not be in the coming months, therefore bursting its banks does not arise. “This is an exercise carried out annually to ensure that the reservoir is well secured and that the expected flow of water along the River Niger and its tributaries are controlled. “Our team of dedicated and experienced engineers is working round the clock to ensure power supply to the nation as well as the safety and integrity of our dam. We would like to assure the public that there is no cause for alarm and the wicked and fake news should be disregarded.  The Management of Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited, operators of the Kainji and Jebba Hydro Power Plants in Niger state, has dismissed reports on social media that the Kainji Dam burst its banks. In a statement, it said: “This news is totally false. Our dam is in full operations and currently supplying power to the national grid. The fact that we are in full and normal operations can easily be confirmed from the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) and the National Control Centre (NCC) who are our dispatchers.” In the statement issued by the Head, Corporate Communications, Olugbenga Adebola, the firm said Kainji plant is carrying out water spillage exercise to regulate the water flow along the river Niger. “The dam reservoir is currently not at its fullest capacity and will not be in the coming months, therefore bursting its banks does not arise. “This is an exercise carried out annually to ensure that the reservoir is well secured and that the expected flow of water along the River Niger and its tributaries are controlled. “Our team of dedicated and experienced engineers is working round the clock to ensure power supply to the nation as well as the safety and integrity of our dam. We would like to assure the public that there is no cause for alarm and the wicked and fake news should be disregarded. 