Sola Yomi-Ajayi, the CEO of United Bank for Africa (UBA)’s operations in the United States, has been appointed to the Export-Import Bank of the United States (US EXIM) Committee on Sub-Saharan Africa for 2020/2021. Established by the US Congress, the Sub-Saharan Africa Advisory Committee provides guidance and advice regarding US EXIM policies and programmes designed to support the expansion of financing for US manufactured goods and services in sub-Saharan Africa. The committee is composed of prominent members of the US business community with Ms Yomi-Ajayi as the sole representative of an African institution. UBA’s Group Chairman, Tony O. Elumelu, said, “The appointment of Sola, as a member of the US EXIM Advisory Committee for Sub-Saharan Africa is welcome news.  UBA’s global network of offices in New York, London and Paris, permit us to be the preferred financial intermediary between Africa and the rest of the world.  Our mission at UBA is fully aligned with the objectives of the US EXIM.” The EXIM President and Chairman, Kimberly A. Reed, said, “With six of the 10 fastest-growing economies in the world and more than one billion consumers, Africa is poised to play a pivotal role in the global economy. “Supporting US exports to sub-Saharan Africa is one of our top priorities at EXIM, and my deepest congratulations go to the new members of the EXIM Sub-Saharan Africa Advisory Committee.”  Sola Yomi-Ajayi, the CEO of United Bank for Africa (UBA)’s operations in the United States, has been appointed to the Export-Import Bank of the United States (US EXIM) Committee on Sub-Saharan Africa for 2020/2021. Established by the US Congress, the Sub-Saharan Africa Advisory Committee provides guidance and advice regarding US EXIM policies and programmes designed to support the expansion of financing for US manufactured goods and services in sub-Saharan Africa. The committee is composed of prominent members of the US business community with Ms Yomi-Ajayi as the sole representative of an African institution. UBA’s Group Chairman, Tony O. Elumelu, said, “The appointment of Sola, as a member of the US EXIM Advisory Committee for Sub-Saharan Africa is welcome news.  UBA’s global network of offices in New York, London and Paris, permit us to be the preferred financial intermediary between Africa and the rest of the world.  Our mission at UBA is fully aligned with the objectives of the US EXIM.” The EXIM President and Chairman, Kimberly A. Reed, said, “With six of the 10 fastest-growing economies in the world and more than one billion consumers, Africa is poised to play a pivotal role in the global economy. “Supporting US exports to sub-Saharan Africa is one of our top priorities at EXIM, and my deepest congratulations go to the new members of the EXIM Sub-Saharan Africa Advisory Committee.” 