President of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), Dame Gladys Olajumoke Simplice has urged taxpayers to brace up for adequate payment of taxes in the post-coronavirus era. Simplice spoke in Sango – Ota, Ogun State during the investiture and inauguration of the 2nd Chairman of CITN Ota District, Alhaji Adeola Agbogunleri and other executive members. She said the government had rolled out some palliatives to cushion the effect of the pandemic on the economy, saying that citizens must reciprocate the gesture by prompt and adequate tax payment. The tax expert said the pandemic dealt a huge blow on the nation’s economy due to lack of strong education, the health care system and weak small and medium scale enterprises. “A lot of giveaways have been given for tax purposes. Yes, it is good to give such at this time but what we are saying is that even as the government is giving a lot of these palliatives at this crisis time, citizens should realise that is it their duty after this COVID – 19 to pay taxes adequately.” Agbogunleri promised to strengthen the synergy between the CITN and the state government on how to address the issue of multiplicity of taxes, assuring he will promote professionalism and run an open door policy for the institute.  President of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), Dame Gladys Olajumoke Simplice has urged taxpayers to brace up for adequate payment of taxes in the post-coronavirus era. Simplice spoke in Sango – Ota, Ogun State during the investiture and inauguration of the 2nd Chairman of CITN Ota District, Alhaji Adeola Agbogunleri and other executive members. She said the government had rolled out some palliatives to cushion the effect of the pandemic on the economy, saying that citizens must reciprocate the gesture by prompt and adequate tax payment. The tax expert said the pandemic dealt a huge blow on the nation’s economy due to lack of strong education, the health care system and weak small and medium scale enterprises. “A lot of giveaways have been given for tax purposes. Yes, it is good to give such at this time but what we are saying is that even as the government is giving a lot of these palliatives at this crisis time, citizens should realise that is it their duty after this COVID – 19 to pay taxes adequately.” Agbogunleri promised to strengthen the synergy between the CITN and the state government on how to address the issue of multiplicity of taxes, assuring he will promote professionalism and run an open door policy for the institute. 