The Gas Aggregation Company Nigeria (GACN) Limited says it will hold a workshop from Wednesday to review industry agreement templates with stakeholders. In a statement, GACN said the two-day workshop would be held September 16-17, 2020, to facilitate discussions among industry stakeholders in relation to  Master Gas Sale and Aggregation Agreements (Master GSAAs) being adopted in connection with the sale of natural gas  in the Nigerian domestic gas market. The Nigeria’s strategic aggregator also said the workshop is part of the efforts to enhance and quicken the process for negotiation of gas sale agreements in Nigeria’s domestic gas market. The company noted that the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) has been passed unto the National Assembly (NASS) for the finalisation, adding that the network code for gas transportation has become operational. The gas code is kicking off a gas penetration initiative for the conversion of petrol vehicles to gas, underpinned by Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) – Compressed Natural Gas (CNG). “The foregoing therefore presents an enabling backdrop for vital gas sector stakeholders to key into the government’s vision bearing in mind the declaration of year 2020 as the Year of Gas by the Minister of State for Gas, Chief Timipre Sylva, and the GMD of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari,” it stated. GACN said the workshop will be facilitated by Banwo & Ighodalo with participants including the MD of GACN, Lekan Ogunleye and officials from NNPC, among others.  The Gas Aggregation Company Nigeria (GACN) Limited says it will hold a workshop from Wednesday to review industry agreement templates with stakeholders. In a statement, GACN said the two-day workshop would be held September 16-17, 2020, to facilitate discussions among industry stakeholders in relation to  Master Gas Sale and Aggregation Agreements (Master GSAAs) being adopted in connection with the sale of natural gas  in the Nigerian domestic gas market. The Nigeria’s strategic aggregator also said the workshop is part of the efforts to enhance and quicken the process for negotiation of gas sale agreements in Nigeria’s domestic gas market. The company noted that the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) has been passed unto the National Assembly (NASS) for the finalisation, adding that the network code for gas transportation has become operational. The gas code is kicking off a gas penetration initiative for the conversion of petrol vehicles to gas, underpinned by Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) – Compressed Natural Gas (CNG). “The foregoing therefore presents an enabling backdrop for vital gas sector stakeholders to key into the government’s vision bearing in mind the declaration of year 2020 as the Year of Gas by the Minister of State for Gas, Chief Timipre Sylva, and the GMD of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari,” it stated. GACN said the workshop will be facilitated by Banwo & Ighodalo with participants including the MD of GACN, Lekan Ogunleye and officials from NNPC, among others. 