Former Edo State Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Godwin Erhahon has said that Oshiomhole lost the state governorship election to Governor Godwin Obaseki because the Bini were fed up with Adams Oshiomhole dictating to them politically. Erhahon said this in a statement in Benin on Monday while reacting to the outcome of the election. “First, majority of those who attempted to resist Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s imposition of the governor on the party in 2016 felt it would be foolish of them to allow the same Oshiomhole to use them to remove Obaseki who he first hailed as a super man. “Also, the Benins who are majority in the state didn’t want Oshiomhole to continue to Lord it over them politically and resolved to bury him politically. According to him, the APC Campaign Council was entrusted to sycophants and mercenaries. “Some of the past and present political office holders who believe that they must lead the party at every level alienated credible grassroots mobilizers from the campaign because they don’t want anyone else to shine. He said he warned the APC candidate two weeks ago that the party was loosing ground but nobody care to listen. Erhahon congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki on his victory and the APC governorship candidate Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu for his gallant effort. He however noted that the challenges before the APC is to ensure that Comrade Oshiomhole doesn’t interfere in the choice of party officials in the forthcoming Congress because he will overload the party with sycophants and incompetent leadership. Former Edo State Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Godwin Erhahon has said that Oshiomhole lost the state governorship election to Governor Godwin Obaseki because the Bini were fed up with Adams Oshiomhole dictating to them politically. Erhahon said this in a statement in Benin on Monday while reacting to the outcome of the election. “First, majority of those who attempted to resist Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s imposition of the governor on the party in 2016 felt it would be foolish of them to allow the same Oshiomhole to use them to remove Obaseki who he first hailed as a super man. “Also, the Benins who are majority in the state didn’t want Oshiomhole to continue to Lord it over them politically and resolved to bury him politically. According to him, the APC Campaign Council was entrusted to sycophants and mercenaries. “Some of the past and present political office holders who believe that they must lead the party at every level alienated credible grassroots mobilizers from the campaign because they don’t want anyone else to shine. He said he warned the APC candidate two weeks ago that the party was loosing ground but nobody care to listen. Erhahon congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki on his victory and the APC governorship candidate Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu for his gallant effort. He however noted that the challenges before the APC is to ensure that Comrade Oshiomhole doesn’t interfere in the choice of party officials in the forthcoming Congress because he will overload the party with sycophants and incompetent leadership.