The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State has written a letter to President Mohammadu Buhari on the high level of violence going on in the state as the parties campaign towards the October 10 governorship election. The party says in a statement signed by its publicity secretary, Mr Kennedy Peretei, that they fingered All Progressives Congress (APC) thugs as the culprits. “Over the past few weeks, we have noticed to our consternation, the culpability of the security chiefs in Ondo State in the mayhem perpetrated by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Governor Rotimi Akeredolu in Ondo State during the ongoing campaign season. “They have been giving free access to the political thugs assembled to maim and kill the people of Ondo State in order to achieve a desired political objective. “Indeed, we believe that there is complicity involving even the Inspector General of Police and some service chiefs. “Anywhere Akeredolu goes to campaign, about five or six buses loaded with political thugs, wielding guns accompany him. “Only on Tuesday, September 22, these thugs unleashed violence on the people during Akeredolu’s campaign in Idanre. “The story has been the same anywhere he goes, be it Akure or Ondo town. “If care is not taken, there will be genocide in Ondo State. “Mr President, all the petitions that have been written in relation to this naked orgy of violence unleashed on the peace-loving people of Ondo State by a government elected to protect their lives and property have been ignored by the service chiefs. “We also bring to your attention the culpability of the governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Kayode Fayemi, in the whole saga. “We have it on record that, following Akeredolu’s invitation to the DG, DSS over the violence recorded at a campaign in Ondo State, Fayemi led him to the DSS boss and other service chiefs. “The objective, we learnt, was to soften the ground for him so as to continue his reign of terror in Ondo State. “We have also learnt of their plan to repaint campaign vehicles and brand them as observers’ vehicles during the election, so that these vehicles can be used to convey weapons to actualize their rigging plans. “Right now, a lot of people have been maimed and injured. “Petitions to the federal authorities have yielded nothing, not even the promise of investigation. “We want Your Excellency to be aware of these atrocities committed under your watch. “We are also asking the International Community to note these atrocities. “The 1983 violence that engulfed Ondo State must not be allowed to recur. “Our people will resist imposition and manipulation of votes with the last drop of blood in their veins. “It would be terrible for violence to engulf Ondo State under your tenure. “Because of APC’s failure in Ondo State, there is a desperation to make the October governorship election in Ondo State a do-or-die affair. “Given Your Excellency’s professed commitment to free and fair polls in the wake of the just concluded governorship election in Edo State, we urge you to halt the onslaught on the opposition and people of Ondo State by Governor Akeredolu and his army of political thugs.  ‘Tissue of lies’ The APC, reacting to the PDP’s letter, said its attention had been drawn to the “uncoordinated blackmail and tissue of lies” by the PDP, creating the impression that the ruling party promotes thuggery. The APC claimed that it had no reason whatsoever to engage in, or encourage thuggery. In a statement by the party spokesman, Alex Kalejaiye, APC said it does not need violence to win the election. “The Governor of the State and APC flag bearer, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredol, SAN will never be a man to go about with thugs, guns, or be a party to violence of whatever colouration. “The APC-led government has thus far won the confidence of the people of the State with an unbelievable capacity to manage resources, and this has led to construction of roads, bridges, the enviable industrial hub at Ore, intervention in Agriculture sector, and so on. “These are what we tell the electorate when we go on campaign. “We neither need guns nor cutlasses to do this. “Violence and thuggery are not in the character of the ruling party. “It is astonishing to hear the PDP accusing the ruling party of promoting do-or-die approach to election, which is actually their second name. “The desperation of PDP leaders is responsible for the bulk of crises recorded so far in the State. “The so called “Akure Agenda”, because its candidate is from Akure, explains why the members from the capital has severally launched unprovoked attacks on our members. “The APC also has it on good authority that the unannounced alliance between the PDP and the Zenith Labour Party is geared towards constant creation of semblance of attacks on each other, and blame the ruling party for same. “The APC urged security agencies to go ruthless on any party or individual that is bent on depriving the Sunshine State a peaceful and rancour-free election,” the party said. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State has written a letter to President Mohammadu Buhari on the high level of violence going on in the state as the parties campaign towards the October 10 governorship election. The party says in a statement signed by its publicity secretary, Mr Kennedy Peretei, that they fingered All Progressives Congress (APC) thugs as the culprits. “Over the past few weeks, we have noticed to our consternation, the culpability of the security chiefs in Ondo State in the mayhem perpetrated by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Governor Rotimi Akeredolu in Ondo State during the ongoing campaign season. “They have been giving free access to the political thugs assembled to maim and kill the people of Ondo State in order to achieve a desired political objective. “Indeed, we believe that there is complicity involving even the Inspector General of Police and some service chiefs. “Anywhere Akeredolu goes to campaign, about five or six buses loaded with political thugs, wielding guns accompany him. “Only on Tuesday, September 22, these thugs unleashed violence on the people during Akeredolu’s campaign in Idanre. “The story has been the same anywhere he goes, be it Akure or Ondo town. “If care is not taken, there will be genocide in Ondo State. “Mr President, all the petitions that have been written in relation to this naked orgy of violence unleashed on the peace-loving people of Ondo State by a government elected to protect their lives and property have been ignored by the service chiefs. “We also bring to your attention the culpability of the governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Kayode Fayemi, in the whole saga. “We have it on record that, following Akeredolu’s invitation to the DG, DSS over the violence recorded at a campaign in Ondo State, Fayemi led him to the DSS boss and other service chiefs. “The objective, we learnt, was to soften the ground for him so as to continue his reign of terror in Ondo State. “We have also learnt of their plan to repaint campaign vehicles and brand them as observers’ vehicles during the election, so that these vehicles can be used to convey weapons to actualize their rigging plans. “Right now, a lot of people have been maimed and injured. “Petitions to the federal authorities have yielded nothing, not even the promise of investigation. “We want Your Excellency to be aware of these atrocities committed under your watch. “We are also asking the International Community to note these atrocities. “The 1983 violence that engulfed Ondo State must not be allowed to recur. “Our people will resist imposition and manipulation of votes with the last drop of blood in their veins. “It would be terrible for violence to engulf Ondo State under your tenure. “Because of APC’s failure in Ondo State, there is a desperation to make the October governorship election in Ondo State a do-or-die affair. “Given Your Excellency’s professed commitment to free and fair polls in the wake of the just concluded governorship election in Edo State, we urge you to halt the onslaught on the opposition and people of Ondo State by Governor Akeredolu and his army of political thugs.  ‘Tissue of lies’ The APC, reacting to the PDP’s letter, said its attention had been drawn to the “uncoordinated blackmail and tissue of lies” by the PDP, creating the impression that the ruling party promotes thuggery. The APC claimed that it had no reason whatsoever to engage in, or encourage thuggery. In a statement by the party spokesman, Alex Kalejaiye, APC said it does not need violence to win the election. “The Governor of the State and APC flag bearer, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredol, SAN will never be a man to go about with thugs, guns, or be a party to violence of whatever colouration. “The APC-led government has thus far won the confidence of the people of the State with an unbelievable capacity to manage resources, and this has led to construction of roads, bridges, the enviable industrial hub at Ore, intervention in Agriculture sector, and so on. “These are what we tell the electorate when we go on campaign. “We neither need guns nor cutlasses to do this. “Violence and thuggery are not in the character of the ruling party. “It is astonishing to hear the PDP accusing the ruling party of promoting do-or-die approach to election, which is actually their second name. “The desperation of PDP leaders is responsible for the bulk of crises recorded so far in the State. “The so called “Akure Agenda”, because its candidate is from Akure, explains why the members from the capital has severally launched unprovoked attacks on our members. “The APC also has it on good authority that the unannounced alliance between the PDP and the Zenith Labour Party is geared towards constant creation of semblance of attacks on each other, and blame the ruling party for same. “The APC urged security agencies to go ruthless on any party or individual that is bent on depriving the Sunshine State a peaceful and rancour-free election,” the party said.