The Nigerian Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO) has ordered its members, comprising truck and tanker owners to resume operations. This was after the Federal Government suspended the implementation of the ban on fuel tankers with over 45,000-litre capacity. National President of NARTO, Alhaji Yusuf Othman, in Abuja said NARTO had earlier told members to stop lifting fuel and withdraw other services for yesterday and today over the ban. It had also issued a 10-day strike notice to the Federal Government, from Thursday over it. The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari and the Director General (DG) of the Department of State Services (DSS), intervened and the union agreed to shelve the strike till January 1, 2021. Othman said that the new commencement date was to allow for effective dialogue among the critical stakeholders. “Following the intervention of the Group Managing Director (GMD) of NNPC and the Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS), we are hereby directing all our members to resume operation nationwide. “This is a directive that we revert to status quo until January 2021 to allow for wider consultation. We thank all members for their support and co-operation and praise their patience as we all wait to see to the peaceful resolution of the issues,” Othman said. Othman also warned that if these trucks with 45,000-litres capacity were withdrawn suddenly and promptly as being demanded by the government’s decision, it would create other side effects including unemployment, with over 40,000 drivers, drivers’ mates and artisans affected. “The fact that we understand the reasons behind the government decision, we equally demand that the government should be more empathetic and sensitive to the plight of our members and the very harsh economic situation of the time by giving us ample time to source for money to re-engineer all affected trucks and operations accordingly.”  The Nigerian Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO) has ordered its members, comprising truck and tanker owners to resume operations. This was after the Federal Government suspended the implementation of the ban on fuel tankers with over 45,000-litre capacity. National President of NARTO, Alhaji Yusuf Othman, in Abuja said NARTO had earlier told members to stop lifting fuel and withdraw other services for yesterday and today over the ban. It had also issued a 10-day strike notice to the Federal Government, from Thursday over it. The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari and the Director General (DG) of the Department of State Services (DSS), intervened and the union agreed to shelve the strike till January 1, 2021. Othman said that the new commencement date was to allow for effective dialogue among the critical stakeholders. “Following the intervention of the Group Managing Director (GMD) of NNPC and the Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS), we are hereby directing all our members to resume operation nationwide. “This is a directive that we revert to status quo until January 2021 to allow for wider consultation. We thank all members for their support and co-operation and praise their patience as we all wait to see to the peaceful resolution of the issues,” Othman said. Othman also warned that if these trucks with 45,000-litres capacity were withdrawn suddenly and promptly as being demanded by the government’s decision, it would create other side effects including unemployment, with over 40,000 drivers, drivers’ mates and artisans affected. “The fact that we understand the reasons behind the government decision, we equally demand that the government should be more empathetic and sensitive to the plight of our members and the very harsh economic situation of the time by giving us ample time to source for money to re-engineer all affected trucks and operations accordingly.” 