The National Peace Committee (NPC) headed by a former Head of States, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, has charged Governor Godwin Obaseki to repay the people of the state with good governance. This is contained in the NPC statement on the Edo 2020 governorship election and signed by Abubakar on Sunday night. Obaseki of the APC won the election to be reelected after defeating his main challenger, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the PDP. “On behalf of the members of the National Peace Committee, I wish to congratulate the good people of Edo State on the peaceful conduct of their elections in which a winner has emerged. Nigerians appreciate the exemplary sacrifice, decorum and courage that you showed allaying the earlier fears that preceded the elections. I appeal to Nigerians across the board to emulate your conduct,” Abubakar said. While also congratulating the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu and his team, the Inspector General of Police, other security agencies, and civil society groups for doing such an excellent job and making great sacrifices, the former military ruler prayed that every election will bring the nation closer to peace. He equally thanked the Oba of Benin, who he said teamed up with the committee to deploy his moral authority in the appeal for peace. He added, “Our congratulations to the contestants, to Godwin Obaseki, the winner, Pastor Ize-Iyamu and others who sought the office of governor. “It is our prayer that you (Obaseki) will repay the good people of Edo State with all the ingredients of good governance, justice equity.” The National Peace Committee (NPC) headed by a former Head of States, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, has charged Governor Godwin Obaseki to repay the people of the state with good governance. This is contained in the NPC statement on the Edo 2020 governorship election and signed by Abubakar on Sunday night. Obaseki of the APC won the election to be reelected after defeating his main challenger, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the PDP. “On behalf of the members of the National Peace Committee, I wish to congratulate the good people of Edo State on the peaceful conduct of their elections in which a winner has emerged. Nigerians appreciate the exemplary sacrifice, decorum and courage that you showed allaying the earlier fears that preceded the elections. I appeal to Nigerians across the board to emulate your conduct,” Abubakar said. While also congratulating the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu and his team, the Inspector General of Police, other security agencies, and civil society groups for doing such an excellent job and making great sacrifices, the former military ruler prayed that every election will bring the nation closer to peace. He equally thanked the Oba of Benin, who he said teamed up with the committee to deploy his moral authority in the appeal for peace. He added, “Our congratulations to the contestants, to Godwin Obaseki, the winner, Pastor Ize-Iyamu and others who sought the office of governor. “It is our prayer that you (Obaseki) will repay the good people of Edo State with all the ingredients of good governance, justice equity.”