Thirty-one state chairmen of the People’s Redemption Party (PRP) have passed a vote of confidence on the Alhaji Falalu Bello-led National Working Committee (NWC). Deputy chairman of the party in Imo State, Engr. Peter Okafor, who moved the motion for a vote of confidence on the party’s leadership on behalf of his colleagues, said their position was to encourage the NWC members to do more in growing the party. Niger State chairman of the party, Engineer Yahya Danbaba Daudu, seconded the motion. The PRP National Chairman, Falalu Bello, in his remarks, said the party which remained a credible alternative to APC and PDP, has the solution to the numerous challenges bedeviling Nigeria. It would be recalled that some stakeholders of the party at the weekend announced the sacking of Bello and his replacement with Prof. Sule Bello as the interim national chairman after accusing him of ‘abusing the party’s constitution and ideology and promoting division, strife and destruction of the rank and file’ of the party among others. But Falalu dispelled the allegations, saying that his purported sack was illegal. Thirty-one state chairmen of the People’s Redemption Party (PRP) have passed a vote of confidence on the Alhaji Falalu Bello-led National Working Committee (NWC). Deputy chairman of the party in Imo State, Engr. Peter Okafor, who moved the motion for a vote of confidence on the party’s leadership on behalf of his colleagues, said their position was to encourage the NWC members to do more in growing the party. Niger State chairman of the party, Engineer Yahya Danbaba Daudu, seconded the motion. The PRP National Chairman, Falalu Bello, in his remarks, said the party which remained a credible alternative to APC and PDP, has the solution to the numerous challenges bedeviling Nigeria. It would be recalled that some stakeholders of the party at the weekend announced the sacking of Bello and his replacement with Prof. Sule Bello as the interim national chairman after accusing him of ‘abusing the party’s constitution and ideology and promoting division, strife and destruction of the rank and file’ of the party among others. But Falalu dispelled the allegations, saying that his purported sack was illegal.