The International Association of Lions Club, (District 404-A2 Nigeria) Abuja Metropolitan Lions Club, said it is undertaking the construction of a 25-bed space Paediatric Centre at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital. The 11th Club President for the 2020/2021 year, Charlz Opusunju, disclosed this to journalists on the side-lines of his investiture in Abuja. LUTH, Lions Club lays foundation for Dialysis centre Ikoyi Lions Club gets new president, board of directors The event was also to raise funds for the project. It is to be built and equipped by the club but it will be handed over to the government to run afterwards. He said the project will cost over N45 million. Speaking about the decision to build the centre, he said: “We went to the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital and we discovered that they did not have any ward for paediatric cancer patients. “So, we took it as a challenge to provide that facility for them.” While noting that people rarely talk about paediatric cancer, he stressed that the club took up the challenge to create awareness about cancer amongst children. Opusunju, who said the project was to be completed in six months, called on the public to support the club to actualise it. The former President of the Club, Monique Welson, said a solar-powered borehole built by the club was commissioned in Tunga Maje, Federal Capital Territory last week. The International Association of Lions Club, (District 404-A2 Nigeria) Abuja Metropolitan Lions Club, said it is undertaking the construction of a 25-bed space Paediatric Centre at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital. The 11th Club President for the 2020/2021 year, Charlz Opusunju, disclosed this to journalists on the side-lines of his investiture in Abuja. LUTH, Lions Club lays foundation for Dialysis centre Ikoyi Lions Club gets new president, board of directors The event was also to raise funds for the project. It is to be built and equipped by the club but it will be handed over to the government to run afterwards. He said the project will cost over N45 million. Speaking about the decision to build the centre, he said: “We went to the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital and we discovered that they did not have any ward for paediatric cancer patients. “So, we took it as a challenge to provide that facility for them.” While noting that people rarely talk about paediatric cancer, he stressed that the club took up the challenge to create awareness about cancer amongst children. Opusunju, who said the project was to be completed in six months, called on the public to support the club to actualise it. The former President of the Club, Monique Welson, said a solar-powered borehole built by the club was commissioned in Tunga Maje, Federal Capital Territory last week.