National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus has said the All Progressives Congress (APC) has failed on its campaign promises to Nigerians. Secondus who spoke with newsmen on Wednesday in Abuja, against the backdrop of increased fuel price and hike in electricity tariff said the Buhari administration has caused pains and hardship to Nigerians through its alleged draconian policies and programmes. He advised the federal government to allow the private sector to drive the economy in the interest of Nigerians and the nation. “They made several promises including reducing the pump price of fuel; allowing the refineries to work. They made a firm commitment and promise to the people. They also promised that the Naira will be equal to one dollar. “On the issue of security, by 2015, it was only North East. But today, the insecurity has engulfed all sections of this country. Our people are dying, no more farmland, our people are dying of hunger, poverty, herdsmen, the crime rate has risen to the highest level. “On corruption, we are aware of what has happened, rather than providing palliative, they have increased the pump price and electricity tariff. And they are in control of everything. “The government must stop propaganda, and face governance. And if they continue this way, they will see the anger of the people,” Secondus said. But the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena said in a statement that Nigerians suffered more during the reign of PDP. “Describing the deregulation of the price of petrol by the APC-led government as callous and cruel is rather sarcastic and tongue-in-cheek, given the pain and anguish suffered by Nigerians on long queues at petrol stations when the PDP-led government presided over a very corrupt subsidy regime. “It is therefore laughable that the same set of people will turn around and condemn decisions taken to fix the mess they created in the system. “The PDP’s outburst indeed exposes once again its real fraudulent character and plot to patronize Nigerians and make them suffer in perpetuity by keeping a fraudulent subsidy arrangement that feeds a few individuals at the expense of the masses. “Compared to PDP’s failed past, under the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration, the reviewed petroleum products pricing template has resulted in a more transparent, efficient and realistic pricing system for petroleum products and also resulted in constant availability of fuel nationwide,” the APC said. National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus has said the All Progressives Congress (APC) has failed on its campaign promises to Nigerians. Secondus who spoke with newsmen on Wednesday in Abuja, against the backdrop of increased fuel price and hike in electricity tariff said the Buhari administration has caused pains and hardship to Nigerians through its alleged draconian policies and programmes. He advised the federal government to allow the private sector to drive the economy in the interest of Nigerians and the nation. “They made several promises including reducing the pump price of fuel; allowing the refineries to work. They made a firm commitment and promise to the people. They also promised that the Naira will be equal to one dollar. “On the issue of security, by 2015, it was only North East. But today, the insecurity has engulfed all sections of this country. Our people are dying, no more farmland, our people are dying of hunger, poverty, herdsmen, the crime rate has risen to the highest level. “On corruption, we are aware of what has happened, rather than providing palliative, they have increased the pump price and electricity tariff. And they are in control of everything. “The government must stop propaganda, and face governance. And if they continue this way, they will see the anger of the people,” Secondus said. But the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena said in a statement that Nigerians suffered more during the reign of PDP. “Describing the deregulation of the price of petrol by the APC-led government as callous and cruel is rather sarcastic and tongue-in-cheek, given the pain and anguish suffered by Nigerians on long queues at petrol stations when the PDP-led government presided over a very corrupt subsidy regime. “It is therefore laughable that the same set of people will turn around and condemn decisions taken to fix the mess they created in the system. “The PDP’s outburst indeed exposes once again its real fraudulent character and plot to patronize Nigerians and make them suffer in perpetuity by keeping a fraudulent subsidy arrangement that feeds a few individuals at the expense of the masses. “Compared to PDP’s failed past, under the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration, the reviewed petroleum products pricing template has resulted in a more transparent, efficient and realistic pricing system for petroleum products and also resulted in constant availability of fuel nationwide,” the APC said.