A collation agent of the PDP in Edo, Ogbeide Ihama, has sounded an alarm over the sudden disappearance of returning officers and electoral officers assigned to Orhionmwon local government area for September 19 polls. Orhionmwon is one of two local government areas from where results of voting are yet to be declared. The other is Ovia South West. The officers were last seen at the venue until the commission was due for a break. In the wake of their disappearance, the electoral returning officer has called for an emergency break while awaiting results Orhionmwon and Ovia South West local government. He said he has called the Orhionmwon local government election officer who said he is in the commission’s office but didn’t know the office. History of appeals Voting in Orhionmwon has been beset by challenges on Saturday. The PDP had demanded that results from two polling units be cancelled, citing an “attempt to subvert” will of voters. INEC alleged results and some adhoc staff assigned to Urhonigbe in Orhionmwon went unaccounted for. It also confirmed a shooting incident in the council on Saturday, but said it was working with police and other security agencies to ensure peaceful voting.  A collation agent of the PDP in Edo, Ogbeide Ihama, has sounded an alarm over the sudden disappearance of returning officers and electoral officers assigned to Orhionmwon local government area for September 19 polls. Orhionmwon is one of two local government areas from where results of voting are yet to be declared. The other is Ovia South West. The officers were last seen at the venue until the commission was due for a break. In the wake of their disappearance, the electoral returning officer has called for an emergency break while awaiting results Orhionmwon and Ovia South West local government. He said he has called the Orhionmwon local government election officer who said he is in the commission’s office but didn’t know the office. History of appeals Voting in Orhionmwon has been beset by challenges on Saturday. The PDP had demanded that results from two polling units be cancelled, citing an “attempt to subvert” will of voters. INEC alleged results and some adhoc staff assigned to Urhonigbe in Orhionmwon went unaccounted for. It also confirmed a shooting incident in the council on Saturday, but said it was working with police and other security agencies to ensure peaceful voting. 