Suspected hoodlums shot dead a farmer, a surveyor and the surveyor’s apprentice over a land dispute between Erin and Ilofa communities in Osun State. The Osun State Command Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs Yemisi Opalola, confirmed the incident to Daily Trust on Sunday. It was gathered that the Erin community engaged the 50-year-old surveyor, Tairu Badmus, who had gone to the site with his apprentice when the hoodlums struck. The farmer was said to be working on his farm at the time and his appeal to the hoodlums that he was just a farmer fell on deaf ears as he was shot many times. The PPRO said one of the suspected hoodlums, Ibrahim Olaniran, 26, had been arrested while detectives were on the trail of others. Opalola said the suspected leader of the killers, a popular figure in the community whose name she gave as Tanfiani, was still at large and assured that he would be arrested to face justice. Meanwhile, some grieving youths in the communities were threatening to avenge the killing of the three men. Suspected hoodlums shot dead a farmer, a surveyor and the surveyor’s apprentice over a land dispute between Erin and Ilofa communities in Osun State. The Osun State Command Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs Yemisi Opalola, confirmed the incident to Daily Trust on Sunday. It was gathered that the Erin community engaged the 50-year-old surveyor, Tairu Badmus, who had gone to the site with his apprentice when the hoodlums struck. The farmer was said to be working on his farm at the time and his appeal to the hoodlums that he was just a farmer fell on deaf ears as he was shot many times. The PPRO said one of the suspected hoodlums, Ibrahim Olaniran, 26, had been arrested while detectives were on the trail of others. Opalola said the suspected leader of the killers, a popular figure in the community whose name she gave as Tanfiani, was still at large and assured that he would be arrested to face justice. Meanwhile, some grieving youths in the communities were threatening to avenge the killing of the three men.