A book on Precious Owolabi, the corps member serving with Channels TV who was killed in a clash between the police and Shi’ite Islamic sect, is ready for launch in Abuja. Owolabi, who was part of a Channels TV crew, was killed on July 22, 2019, in the police and Shi’ite clash that day which also claimed the life of a Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations, FCT Command, DCP Usman Umar. The book is scheduled to be launched on September 16 at the National Press Centre, Abuja. Speaking on the launch, father of the deceased, Mr Ayooluwa Owolabi, said the book is part of the literary works of his late son before his death on that fateful morning in Abuja. “Precious had written some plays that were actually ready for publication before he was unfortunately killed while on the legitimate performance of his duties. “One of the plays, ‘3 Minutes to Midnight’ was set for stage presentation at the end of his service year which was just three months away. So, this book presentation is to honour him and bring his aspiration to life. “For my family and I, the book presentation will help, we believe, to preserve his dreams, aspirations, memory and legacy. “It is also to inspire other young people who are serving their country to know that their sacrifices are not in vain,” Mr Ayooluwa said. A book on Precious Owolabi, the corps member serving with Channels TV who was killed in a clash between the police and Shi’ite Islamic sect, is ready for launch in Abuja. Owolabi, who was part of a Channels TV crew, was killed on July 22, 2019, in the police and Shi’ite clash that day which also claimed the life of a Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations, FCT Command, DCP Usman Umar. The book is scheduled to be launched on September 16 at the National Press Centre, Abuja. Speaking on the launch, father of the deceased, Mr Ayooluwa Owolabi, said the book is part of the literary works of his late son before his death on that fateful morning in Abuja. “Precious had written some plays that were actually ready for publication before he was unfortunately killed while on the legitimate performance of his duties. “One of the plays, ‘3 Minutes to Midnight’ was set for stage presentation at the end of his service year which was just three months away. So, this book presentation is to honour him and bring his aspiration to life. “For my family and I, the book presentation will help, we believe, to preserve his dreams, aspirations, memory and legacy. “It is also to inspire other young people who are serving their country to know that their sacrifices are not in vain,” Mr Ayooluwa said.