Hollandia, a dairy brand in Nigeria from CHI Limited, has provided dairy nourishment to children in Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps and orphanages in Lagos. In a statement, the firm said the gesture came at a time the COVID-19 pandemic was disrupting food supply chains and availability and devastating livelihoods, leading to deteriorating quality of diets and nutrition. Hollandia Yoghurt to reward consumers in social media campaign New Hollandia Lactose Free Milk excites consumers Under the Hollandia Nurture A Child initiative, the firm donated its Hollandia Evaporated Milk and Hollandia Yoghurt products to the children. The beneficiaries include; the IDPs camp in Bogije, Ibeju Lekki, Lot Foundation Dustbin Estate in Ajegunle, Life Changers Orphanage in Festac, and Chosen Child Orphanage, Badia, in Lagos. Mrs. Bose Aggrey, the Executive Director, Web of Hearts Foundation at Ibeju Lekki, who received the products, said: “Sometime last year, we were beneficiaries of a huge product donation from Hollandia and we can attest that over 500 children benefited from the project. Chi Limited Managing Director, Mr. Deepanjan Roy, said: “We feel very proud and glad to provide Hollandia nourishment to vulnerable children but especially at this critical time.” Hollandia, a dairy brand in Nigeria from CHI Limited, has provided dairy nourishment to children in Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps and orphanages in Lagos. In a statement, the firm said the gesture came at a time the COVID-19 pandemic was disrupting food supply chains and availability and devastating livelihoods, leading to deteriorating quality of diets and nutrition. Hollandia Yoghurt to reward consumers in social media campaign New Hollandia Lactose Free Milk excites consumers Under the Hollandia Nurture A Child initiative, the firm donated its Hollandia Evaporated Milk and Hollandia Yoghurt products to the children. The beneficiaries include; the IDPs camp in Bogije, Ibeju Lekki, Lot Foundation Dustbin Estate in Ajegunle, Life Changers Orphanage in Festac, and Chosen Child Orphanage, Badia, in Lagos. Mrs. Bose Aggrey, the Executive Director, Web of Hearts Foundation at Ibeju Lekki, who received the products, said: “Sometime last year, we were beneficiaries of a huge product donation from Hollandia and we can attest that over 500 children benefited from the project. Chi Limited Managing Director, Mr. Deepanjan Roy, said: “We feel very proud and glad to provide Hollandia nourishment to vulnerable children but especially at this critical time.”