Former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Olabode George, has also weighed in on the forthcoming governorship election in Edo State, saying the incumbent governor, Godwin Obaseki deserved a second term. “Governor Godwin Obaseki is an Enigma. He is a good man with a kind heart who has devoted the last four years to the service of the good people of Edo State, with total selflessness and sacrifice,” George said in a statement on Tuesday. He spoke a day after the APC National Leader and former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu asked the electorate of Edo State to reject Obaseki. But the PDP leader described Obaseki as a humble democrat, “a bridge-builder, a go-getter who is not deterred by the tantrums and the shenanigans of little men who go about trying to distort his image and his incredible achievements in Edo.” He added, “The people of Edo State believe in his hard work and observable developments he has achieved. He is a man of ingenuity and quick, natural accommodating nature. “Governor Obaseki should disregard the conspiracies and the charades of little men who go about playing dirty politics, sponsoring thuggery, flaming the embers of destruction. “Godwin Obaseki definitely deserves a second term. He has earned it. He has worked for it. And most importantly, he has the support and the goodwill of all Edo people. “Godwin Obaseki has done his best for the people of Edo State and the people should please vote for him on Saturday.” Former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Olabode George, has also weighed in on the forthcoming governorship election in Edo State, saying the incumbent governor, Godwin Obaseki deserved a second term. “Governor Godwin Obaseki is an Enigma. He is a good man with a kind heart who has devoted the last four years to the service of the good people of Edo State, with total selflessness and sacrifice,” George said in a statement on Tuesday. He spoke a day after the APC National Leader and former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu asked the electorate of Edo State to reject Obaseki. But the PDP leader described Obaseki as a humble democrat, “a bridge-builder, a go-getter who is not deterred by the tantrums and the shenanigans of little men who go about trying to distort his image and his incredible achievements in Edo.” He added, “The people of Edo State believe in his hard work and observable developments he has achieved. He is a man of ingenuity and quick, natural accommodating nature. “Governor Obaseki should disregard the conspiracies and the charades of little men who go about playing dirty politics, sponsoring thuggery, flaming the embers of destruction. “Godwin Obaseki definitely deserves a second term. He has earned it. He has worked for it. And most importantly, he has the support and the goodwill of all Edo people. “Godwin Obaseki has done his best for the people of Edo State and the people should please vote for him on Saturday.”