Former Adamawa state acting governor, James Barka has defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the People’s Democratic Party in the state. Barka renounced his membership of the APC on Thursday, five days after former Governor Bala James Ngilari defected to the APC from the PDP with thousands of his supporters. Barka said Fintiri’s unprecedented development projects in the state attracted him back to PDP. “I have always been a PDP man. Under their party I was elected member of the state Assembly and I became the Speaker. “Under the same PDP I became acting governor and later ambassador. “I only veered off into the APC, leaving my teeming supporters behind, and as you can see; I’ve returned home. I am impressed with Fintiri achievement within short time”. While receiving the former acting governor, Fintiri said the door of PDP is wide open to accommodate all progressives minded people who want to join him in developing the state. Amusa Madagali, the party organising Secretary said Fintiri’s achievement will continue to be the winning card in any PDP’s election. He lauded Barka for the bold step taken to PDP fold. Meanwhile, the splinter PDP group known as rPDP have collapsed its structure and had pledged allegiance to Fintiri. The splinter group lead by its state Chairman, Jauri Blueguy said they have rejoined the mother PDP following the people oriented leadership of Governor Fintiri.  Former Adamawa state acting governor, James Barka has defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the People’s Democratic Party in the state. Barka renounced his membership of the APC on Thursday, five days after former Governor Bala James Ngilari defected to the APC from the PDP with thousands of his supporters. Barka said Fintiri’s unprecedented development projects in the state attracted him back to PDP. “I have always been a PDP man. Under their party I was elected member of the state Assembly and I became the Speaker. “Under the same PDP I became acting governor and later ambassador. “I only veered off into the APC, leaving my teeming supporters behind, and as you can see; I’ve returned home. I am impressed with Fintiri achievement within short time”. While receiving the former acting governor, Fintiri said the door of PDP is wide open to accommodate all progressives minded people who want to join him in developing the state. Amusa Madagali, the party organising Secretary said Fintiri’s achievement will continue to be the winning card in any PDP’s election. He lauded Barka for the bold step taken to PDP fold. Meanwhile, the splinter PDP group known as rPDP have collapsed its structure and had pledged allegiance to Fintiri. The splinter group lead by its state Chairman, Jauri Blueguy said they have rejoined the mother PDP following the people oriented leadership of Governor Fintiri. 