The Federal Government of Nigeria, on Wednesday, said the N27 billion intervention fund for the aviation industry to cushion the COVID-19  pandemic, is not for defunct operators. Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt. Musa Nuhu, said airlines without a valid Air Operator’s Certificate (AOC) would not benefit. COVID-19 test: NCAA allows air passengers to board with no payment prove AIB moves to get NCAA certification on drone deployment Speaking at a virtual gateway forum organized by the League of Airports and Aviation Correspondents (LAAC), he urged Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) to  coordinate its members. “Any airline can apply, whether functioning or not but it is a policy that participating airlines must be functioning and with an Air Operators Certificate. “I also believe that the AON has its own rules and they know the criteria, I believe the AON will not put forward a non- functioning airline.” The N27bn fund was recommended by the Economic Sustainability Committee headed by the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo which submitted its report in June. Its objectives include, to extend grant support including payroll support to the aviation industry including airlines, handlers, caterers and related services; provision of single digit soft loans, among others. ”The airlines should always carry the NCAA, the Ministry of Aviation and the Nigerian embassy in the country they are flying into along, we are here to help them grow, they should carry us along, it will be very helpful when the airlines carry the regulatory body along,” the DG added. The Federal Government of Nigeria, on Wednesday, said the N27 billion intervention fund for the aviation industry to cushion the COVID-19  pandemic, is not for defunct operators. Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt. Musa Nuhu, said airlines without a valid Air Operator’s Certificate (AOC) would not benefit. COVID-19 test: NCAA allows air passengers to board with no payment prove AIB moves to get NCAA certification on drone deployment Speaking at a virtual gateway forum organized by the League of Airports and Aviation Correspondents (LAAC), he urged Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) to  coordinate its members. “Any airline can apply, whether functioning or not but it is a policy that participating airlines must be functioning and with an Air Operators Certificate. “I also believe that the AON has its own rules and they know the criteria, I believe the AON will not put forward a non- functioning airline.” The N27bn fund was recommended by the Economic Sustainability Committee headed by the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo which submitted its report in June. Its objectives include, to extend grant support including payroll support to the aviation industry including airlines, handlers, caterers and related services; provision of single digit soft loans, among others. ”The airlines should always carry the NCAA, the Ministry of Aviation and the Nigerian embassy in the country they are flying into along, we are here to help them grow, they should carry us along, it will be very helpful when the airlines carry the regulatory body along,” the DG added.