Jaiz Bank, Nigeria’s premier non-interest bank, has clinched the Most Improved Islamic Bank award for 2020 by the Global Islamic Finance Awards (GIFA). A statement from the bank said the awards are one of the prestigious awards in Islamic banking and finance; the other prestigious awards are Islamic Development Bank Prize in Islamic Banking and Finance known as ‘IDB Prize’, and the Royal Award for Islamic Finance of Malaysia. In a congratulatory letter to the Managing Director, Hassan Usman, the Chairman of GIFA, Prof. Humayon Dar, said the awards committee picked Jaiz Bank as the best out of three organizations. “After long deliberations, it was decided in favour of Jaiz Bank based on a number of factors included in the GIFA Methodology. “Please accept our heartiest congratulations on this huge achievement and accolade.” The committee said the bank passed on social responsibility and commitment to Islamic banking and finance. In his remarks, Usman thanked GIFA for choosing the bank as the Most Improved Islamic Bank in the world. “We are pleased that the world watches and appreciates our modest contributions to the development of Islamic Finance. “This award is dedicated to our creator, in whose grace all things are perfected. We are deeply appreciative of the contributions of our loyal customers, dedicated staff and committed shareholders.” Jaiz Bank, Nigeria’s premier non-interest bank, has clinched the Most Improved Islamic Bank award for 2020 by the Global Islamic Finance Awards (GIFA). A statement from the bank said the awards are one of the prestigious awards in Islamic banking and finance; the other prestigious awards are Islamic Development Bank Prize in Islamic Banking and Finance known as ‘IDB Prize’, and the Royal Award for Islamic Finance of Malaysia. In a congratulatory letter to the Managing Director, Hassan Usman, the Chairman of GIFA, Prof. Humayon Dar, said the awards committee picked Jaiz Bank as the best out of three organizations. “After long deliberations, it was decided in favour of Jaiz Bank based on a number of factors included in the GIFA Methodology. “Please accept our heartiest congratulations on this huge achievement and accolade.” The committee said the bank passed on social responsibility and commitment to Islamic banking and finance. In his remarks, Usman thanked GIFA for choosing the bank as the Most Improved Islamic Bank in the world. “We are pleased that the world watches and appreciates our modest contributions to the development of Islamic Finance. “This award is dedicated to our creator, in whose grace all things are perfected. We are deeply appreciative of the contributions of our loyal customers, dedicated staff and committed shareholders.”