The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has flagged off its Ondo state governorship campaign ahead of the election. The PDP, which is the leading opposition party in the state, has fielded a former Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General of the state, Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), while the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has fielded Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. Edo 2020: ‘PDP Chairman has not resigned‘ PDP, APC trade tackles over new fuel price, electricity tariff hike Flagging off the campaign in Akure, the Ondo state capital, on Saturday, the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, asked the people of the state to vote out the APC-led government. “By the special grace of God, what you shall do on that day is to vote out that governor and that man who is bringing the change is Eyitayo Jegede. “Let us tell the federal government of APC that the only thing left for Nigeria is for Buhari to conduct free and fair elections in Edo and Ondo states so that Nigerians can remember him,” Secondus said. Similarly, Chairman of the PDP Governors Forum and Governor of Sokoto state, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, said the electorate should vote out the APC because: “At this time of COVID-19, they have increased the suffering of Nigerians.” “Instead of giving us palliatives, they are adding to the sufferings of Nigerians by increasing fuel prices, by increasing electricity tariff,” he added. Jegede on his part, promised to deliver dividend of democracy to the people by creating job opportunities, improving the economy of the state among others. Governors, Board of Trustees (BoT) National Working Committee (NWC), National Assembly Caucus, National Executive Committee (NEC) members and other critical stakeholders of the party were at the flag off. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed October 10, 2020, for the poll. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has flagged off its Ondo state governorship campaign ahead of the election. The PDP, which is the leading opposition party in the state, has fielded a former Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General of the state, Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), while the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has fielded Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. Edo 2020: ‘PDP Chairman has not resigned‘ PDP, APC trade tackles over new fuel price, electricity tariff hike Flagging off the campaign in Akure, the Ondo state capital, on Saturday, the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, asked the people of the state to vote out the APC-led government. “By the special grace of God, what you shall do on that day is to vote out that governor and that man who is bringing the change is Eyitayo Jegede. “Let us tell the federal government of APC that the only thing left for Nigeria is for Buhari to conduct free and fair elections in Edo and Ondo states so that Nigerians can remember him,” Secondus said. Similarly, Chairman of the PDP Governors Forum and Governor of Sokoto state, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, said the electorate should vote out the APC because: “At this time of COVID-19, they have increased the suffering of Nigerians.” “Instead of giving us palliatives, they are adding to the sufferings of Nigerians by increasing fuel prices, by increasing electricity tariff,” he added. Jegede on his part, promised to deliver dividend of democracy to the people by creating job opportunities, improving the economy of the state among others. Governors, Board of Trustees (BoT) National Working Committee (NWC), National Assembly Caucus, National Executive Committee (NEC) members and other critical stakeholders of the party were at the flag off. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed October 10, 2020, for the poll.