The Chairman of Kuje Area Council, Alhaji Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, on Friday, took attendance of staff when he paid an unscheduled visit to the Local Education Authority (LEA) secretariat in the area. Sabo, who was accompanied by some of his aides to inspect the ongoing annex office building at the secretariat, met only two Heads of Department (HODs) and the officer-in-charge of salary when he arrived. The chairman, while addressing the staff present, expressed displeasure over the absence of most of the senior staff, adding that gender, tribe, religion or political affiliation of any staff didn’t matter to him but their passion, dedication and commitment which the system needs if it must work. He, therefore, advised staff to ensure they were dedicated and committed to their work at all times, saying the senior staff must learn how to lead by example in order for the juniors to emulate them. City News reported that primary school teachers and staff of LEAs across the FCT were demanding the payment of their new minimum wage by the six area council chairmen. Several stakeholders meetings between the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) and the six area council chairmen to come to a compromise on the payment has continued to hit a brick wall. The Chairman of Kuje Area Council, Alhaji Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, on Friday, took attendance of staff when he paid an unscheduled visit to the Local Education Authority (LEA) secretariat in the area. Sabo, who was accompanied by some of his aides to inspect the ongoing annex office building at the secretariat, met only two Heads of Department (HODs) and the officer-in-charge of salary when he arrived. The chairman, while addressing the staff present, expressed displeasure over the absence of most of the senior staff, adding that gender, tribe, religion or political affiliation of any staff didn’t matter to him but their passion, dedication and commitment which the system needs if it must work. He, therefore, advised staff to ensure they were dedicated and committed to their work at all times, saying the senior staff must learn how to lead by example in order for the juniors to emulate them. City News reported that primary school teachers and staff of LEAs across the FCT were demanding the payment of their new minimum wage by the six area council chairmen. Several stakeholders meetings between the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) and the six area council chairmen to come to a compromise on the payment has continued to hit a brick wall.