The Ministry of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs (FMSDIGA) has approved the commencement of the physical monitoring of some 2017/2018 Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved projects. The minister, Senator George Akume, on Monday, said it was to ensure that all FEC decisions were implemented strictly, in accordance with the intentions of the council and value for money for the benefit of Nigerians. The spokesperson of the ministry, Mrs. Julie Osagie Jacobs, in a statement said the physical monitoring exercise commenced with the first team covering the North East, South South and South East geo-political zones from September 14 to 18, 2020, while the second team will cover the North Central, North East and South West geo-political zones from September 21 to 25, 2020. “The ministries are: Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD), Water Resources, Works and Housing, Power, Aviation and Federal Capital Territory (FCT), while the agencies are Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and the Federal Fire Service,” she said. The Director, Department of Policy Implementation and Monitoring of Government Decisions (PIMGD), Mr. Davis Dashe, said only critical projects covering eight Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), were selected for the monitoring exercise.  The Ministry of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs (FMSDIGA) has approved the commencement of the physical monitoring of some 2017/2018 Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved projects. The minister, Senator George Akume, on Monday, said it was to ensure that all FEC decisions were implemented strictly, in accordance with the intentions of the council and value for money for the benefit of Nigerians. The spokesperson of the ministry, Mrs. Julie Osagie Jacobs, in a statement said the physical monitoring exercise commenced with the first team covering the North East, South South and South East geo-political zones from September 14 to 18, 2020, while the second team will cover the North Central, North East and South West geo-political zones from September 21 to 25, 2020. “The ministries are: Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD), Water Resources, Works and Housing, Power, Aviation and Federal Capital Territory (FCT), while the agencies are Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and the Federal Fire Service,” she said. The Director, Department of Policy Implementation and Monitoring of Government Decisions (PIMGD), Mr. Davis Dashe, said only critical projects covering eight Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), were selected for the monitoring exercise. 