A Grade I Area Court, Nyanya, Abuja, on Monday sentenced an unemployed man, Bashir Mutab, to three months imprisonment for stealing a laptop and two iPhones from his neighbours. The judge, Abdullahi Ogedengbe, sentenced Mutab after he pleaded guilty to the crime. Ogedengbe, however, gave the convict an option to pay a fine of N20, 000. He ordered that Mutab’s four other accomplices, Dini Isa, Dahiru Yau, Yusuf Abubakar and Aminu Muazube be remanded in prison custody pending police investigation. Earlier, the prosecution counsel, M.M. Augustine, told the court that the convict, Isa, Yau, Abubakar, Muazube and Peter Moses, all of Karamajiji area of the FCT,  stole two camon-techno phones, techno pouvoir phone, two itel phones and N58, 000. Augustine said the matter was reported at the Wuye Police Station by Madu Emmanuel, Adeola Damilola, Abubakar Bello, Abdullahi Muyideen, Mathias Joshua all of Karamajiji area of the FCT, Abuja. He said the offence contravened the provisions of sections 97, 346, 287 and 247 of the Penal Code. (NAN) Lotto agent in court over criminal breach of trust, cheating A lotto agent, Atoshi Wunuken, 32, on Monday appeared in a Gwagwalada Magistrates’ Court, FCT, over criminal breach of trust and cheating. The prosecution counsel, Abudullahi Tanko, told the court that the complainant, Afolayan Oluwole of Ganmo village, Kwara State, reported the matter at the police station on Sept. 2. Tanko alleged that the complainant on Aug. 2 played a lotto game in the defendant’s shop and won N120,000. He alleged that the defendant collected the account number of the complainant and promised to transfer the money to him, but he did not do that. He also did not give any satisfactory reason why he did not. The offence, he said, contravened the provisions of sections 312 and 322 of the Penal Code. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty. Defence counsel, Christy Oboh, prayed the court to grant his client bail in the most liberal terms, citing Sections 162 and 158 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA). Oboh said that her client will not jump bail if granted. Consequently, Magistrate Yusuf Ibrahim, admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N100, 000 with one reasonable surety in like sum. Ibrahim ordered that the surety must reside within the court’s jurisdiction, in addition to undertaking to forfeit the bail bond should the defendant jump bail. He also ordered both the defendant and surety to submit their present means of identification and adjourned the case until Oct. 21 for hearing. (NAN) A Grade I Area Court, Nyanya, Abuja, on Monday sentenced an unemployed man, Bashir Mutab, to three months imprisonment for stealing a laptop and two iPhones from his neighbours. The judge, Abdullahi Ogedengbe, sentenced Mutab after he pleaded guilty to the crime. Ogedengbe, however, gave the convict an option to pay a fine of N20, 000. He ordered that Mutab’s four other accomplices, Dini Isa, Dahiru Yau, Yusuf Abubakar and Aminu Muazube be remanded in prison custody pending police investigation. Earlier, the prosecution counsel, M.M. Augustine, told the court that the convict, Isa, Yau, Abubakar, Muazube and Peter Moses, all of Karamajiji area of the FCT,  stole two camon-techno phones, techno pouvoir phone, two itel phones and N58, 000. Augustine said the matter was reported at the Wuye Police Station by Madu Emmanuel, Adeola Damilola, Abubakar Bello, Abdullahi Muyideen, Mathias Joshua all of Karamajiji area of the FCT, Abuja. He said the offence contravened the provisions of sections 97, 346, 287 and 247 of the Penal Code. (NAN) Lotto agent in court over criminal breach of trust, cheating A lotto agent, Atoshi Wunuken, 32, on Monday appeared in a Gwagwalada Magistrates’ Court, FCT, over criminal breach of trust and cheating. The prosecution counsel, Abudullahi Tanko, told the court that the complainant, Afolayan Oluwole of Ganmo village, Kwara State, reported the matter at the police station on Sept. 2. Tanko alleged that the complainant on Aug. 2 played a lotto game in the defendant’s shop and won N120,000. He alleged that the defendant collected the account number of the complainant and promised to transfer the money to him, but he did not do that. He also did not give any satisfactory reason why he did not. The offence, he said, contravened the provisions of sections 312 and 322 of the Penal Code. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty. Defence counsel, Christy Oboh, prayed the court to grant his client bail in the most liberal terms, citing Sections 162 and 158 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA). Oboh said that her client will not jump bail if granted. Consequently, Magistrate Yusuf Ibrahim, admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N100, 000 with one reasonable surety in like sum. Ibrahim ordered that the surety must reside within the court’s jurisdiction, in addition to undertaking to forfeit the bail bond should the defendant jump bail. He also ordered both the defendant and surety to submit their present means of identification and adjourned the case until Oct. 21 for hearing. (NAN)