The newly elected chairman of the FCT branch of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) Alhaji Musa Sa’idu Zuba, has pledged that the transport union executives would collaborate with motorists in ensuring that passengers adhere to Covid-19 protocols. Zuba, who stated this in his acceptance speech shortly after the inauguration of the newly elected RTEAN executives in Abuja yesterday, also promised to move the transport union forward in the territory. He said the union would work closely with relevant stakeholders in the transport industry as well as collaborate with government security agencies to ensure members of the transport union abide by rules and regulations especially the FRSC and VIO. He thanked the delegates for finding them worthy to pilot the affairs of the union for the next five years. “On our part, we are going as a team with all my elected executives for the betterment, peace and progress of RTEAN in the FCT,” he said. Among the newly inaugurated executives were, Alhaji Musa Sa’idu Zuba, as state chairman, Mr. Richard Siso, deputy chairman Administration, Dada Julian, deputy chairman Operations, Anako Abdulrahman, deputy chairman planning, Patrick Imanze, 1st state vice chairman and Anthony Udeagu, 2nd state vice chairman. Others include, Audu Alhaji Hassan, state secretary, Mark Oamen, state financial secretary, Adamu Idris, state treasurer, Abdulrahman Olapade, assistant state secretary, Abbass Omotosho, Assistant treasurer, Kazeem Obayemi, organizing secretary and 16 others.  The newly elected chairman of the FCT branch of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) Alhaji Musa Sa’idu Zuba, has pledged that the transport union executives would collaborate with motorists in ensuring that passengers adhere to Covid-19 protocols. Zuba, who stated this in his acceptance speech shortly after the inauguration of the newly elected RTEAN executives in Abuja yesterday, also promised to move the transport union forward in the territory. He said the union would work closely with relevant stakeholders in the transport industry as well as collaborate with government security agencies to ensure members of the transport union abide by rules and regulations especially the FRSC and VIO. He thanked the delegates for finding them worthy to pilot the affairs of the union for the next five years. “On our part, we are going as a team with all my elected executives for the betterment, peace and progress of RTEAN in the FCT,” he said. Among the newly inaugurated executives were, Alhaji Musa Sa’idu Zuba, as state chairman, Mr. Richard Siso, deputy chairman Administration, Dada Julian, deputy chairman Operations, Anako Abdulrahman, deputy chairman planning, Patrick Imanze, 1st state vice chairman and Anthony Udeagu, 2nd state vice chairman. Others include, Audu Alhaji Hassan, state secretary, Mark Oamen, state financial secretary, Adamu Idris, state treasurer, Abdulrahman Olapade, assistant state secretary, Abbass Omotosho, Assistant treasurer, Kazeem Obayemi, organizing secretary and 16 others. 