Chairman of A. A. Rano Nigeria Limited, Auwalu Ali Rano, has insisted that his filling stations will not sell Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) above N160. Speaking on Wednesday in Kano at the opening session of a Change Management Training and Retreat for the  top management staff, Rano said the decision to sell petroleum at between N158 and N160 was to reduce hardship among the citizens. Oil marketers can bargain to fix petrol price with deregulation – FG Economic Summit Group Commends FG Over Petrol Price Deregulation, Electricity Tariffs It was observed that scores of stations are selling the product for up to N162/litre. He said despite the total deregulation of the oil sector, his company decided to consider the plights of Nigerians instead of more additional profits that could be accrued from selling at above N160 per litre. “Filling stations sell fuel at the rate of N162, some even above that. But, we in A. A. Rano across the country sells it at the rate of N160 and below, while NNPC itself ordered all its filling stations to sell at the rate of N160. “So we are even trying to sell below that price. “But, when the price eventually changes we’ll have to review it up as well since it has now been deregulated, unlike before that government was subsidising it,” he said. He said the company plans to diversify its businesses to other sectors like aviation, haulage, LPG, revealing that the company would commission its LPG deport next year. Chairman of A. A. Rano Nigeria Limited, Auwalu Ali Rano, has insisted that his filling stations will not sell Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) above N160. Speaking on Wednesday in Kano at the opening session of a Change Management Training and Retreat for the  top management staff, Rano said the decision to sell petroleum at between N158 and N160 was to reduce hardship among the citizens. Oil marketers can bargain to fix petrol price with deregulation – FG Economic Summit Group Commends FG Over Petrol Price Deregulation, Electricity Tariffs It was observed that scores of stations are selling the product for up to N162/litre. He said despite the total deregulation of the oil sector, his company decided to consider the plights of Nigerians instead of more additional profits that could be accrued from selling at above N160 per litre. “Filling stations sell fuel at the rate of N162, some even above that. But, we in A. A. Rano across the country sells it at the rate of N160 and below, while NNPC itself ordered all its filling stations to sell at the rate of N160. “So we are even trying to sell below that price. “But, when the price eventually changes we’ll have to review it up as well since it has now been deregulated, unlike before that government was subsidising it,” he said. He said the company plans to diversify its businesses to other sectors like aviation, haulage, LPG, revealing that the company would commission its LPG deport next year.