Mabel Oboh is the only female governorship candidate for the September 19, 2020 governorship election in Edo State. In this interview, the flag bearer of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) speaks on why she is in the race, what she will do differently to make Edo great and other sundry issues. Why did you decide to contest the governorship election? I am in the race to deliver Edo people because the state is in crises. As an Edo woman, I believe it is my duty to do something about the poverty that has eaten up Edo people, especially as the men who are the caretakers of the state are busy throwing stones at one another. I am a well travelled woman, a broadcaster, a humanitarian, an entrepreneur, a criminologist, among others. The people have reached out to a woman of my quality to help deliver them from poverty and poor leadership, and that is why I am in the race for the governorship of Edo State. What has the experience been like so far? The experience has been extremely challenging bearing in mind that I belong to a political party that does not believe in money politics and that I am in the mid of political actors where women hardly perform. Since ADC does not believe in money politics, how has been the reception from the electorate? The reception from the electorate has been modest. They are tired of money politics; they need something new. My campaign involves enlightening the people; making them understand that the pittance being given to them to vote every four years belongs to them and for this reason the power belongs to them to use wisely. What challenges have you encountered as a woman going into the election? Off course, a lot of gender discrimination in some quarters, but on a general note, Edo men, women and youths have received me beyond my expectation. I keep hearing from the people that it is time to give a woman the chance to govern Edo State, and that that woman is Mabel Oboh. Moreover, the governorship race is not about gender, but who can deliver. I have a strong workable manifesto that will deliver Edo people and make Edo State great again. What are you going to do differently from others if elected? Part of our policy package is to make Edo State a welfare state in the long run. I will create a self-sufficient economy and employment by reengineering the agricultural sector of Edo State by focusing on food preservation, food packaging, greenhouse farming to eliminate seasonal food, export of our produce, and by so doing create opportunity that will in turn restore wealth back into the hands of the people. And we will generate revenue more than enough to put infrastructure in place. Judging by past elections, most women do not vote for women. Considering their population, how are you going to harness it to your advantage? My campaign has been more of door-to-door. I have made Edo women realise that this is not only my fight but the fight of all. Edo caretakers are warring, hence it is time the women who are the pillars of every society come out and join me in order to change the Edo story. Do you see your party winning the election? My party will win the election if the people are allowed to vote. The news out there is not good at all. The people are scared of the violence going on. I pray that the warring political parties allow the Edo people to decide; for they are truly tired. So you are sure of victory if the election is free and fair? Very sure if the people are allowed to vote. The people of Edo State have embraced the fact that I am the credible choice. What is your message to the electorate? Edo people must not fall prey by selling their votes for pittance. I have said times without number that Edo people’s votes is their power, hence they must vote for a woman of integrity like myself to restore sanity and peace in order to kick-start the economy of the state and make Edo people smile again. Mabel Oboh is the only female governorship candidate for the September 19, 2020 governorship election in Edo State. In this interview, the flag bearer of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) speaks on why she is in the race, what she will do differently to make Edo great and other sundry issues. Why did you decide to contest the governorship election? I am in the race to deliver Edo people because the state is in crises. As an Edo woman, I believe it is my duty to do something about the poverty that has eaten up Edo people, especially as the men who are the caretakers of the state are busy throwing stones at one another. I am a well travelled woman, a broadcaster, a humanitarian, an entrepreneur, a criminologist, among others. The people have reached out to a woman of my quality to help deliver them from poverty and poor leadership, and that is why I am in the race for the governorship of Edo State. What has the experience been like so far? The experience has been extremely challenging bearing in mind that I belong to a political party that does not believe in money politics and that I am in the mid of political actors where women hardly perform. Since ADC does not believe in money politics, how has been the reception from the electorate? The reception from the electorate has been modest. They are tired of money politics; they need something new. My campaign involves enlightening the people; making them understand that the pittance being given to them to vote every four years belongs to them and for this reason the power belongs to them to use wisely. What challenges have you encountered as a woman going into the election? Off course, a lot of gender discrimination in some quarters, but on a general note, Edo men, women and youths have received me beyond my expectation. I keep hearing from the people that it is time to give a woman the chance to govern Edo State, and that that woman is Mabel Oboh. Moreover, the governorship race is not about gender, but who can deliver. I have a strong workable manifesto that will deliver Edo people and make Edo State great again. What are you going to do differently from others if elected? Part of our policy package is to make Edo State a welfare state in the long run. I will create a self-sufficient economy and employment by reengineering the agricultural sector of Edo State by focusing on food preservation, food packaging, greenhouse farming to eliminate seasonal food, export of our produce, and by so doing create opportunity that will in turn restore wealth back into the hands of the people. And we will generate revenue more than enough to put infrastructure in place. Judging by past elections, most women do not vote for women. Considering their population, how are you going to harness it to your advantage? My campaign has been more of door-to-door. I have made Edo women realise that this is not only my fight but the fight of all. Edo caretakers are warring, hence it is time the women who are the pillars of every society come out and join me in order to change the Edo story. Do you see your party winning the election? My party will win the election if the people are allowed to vote. The news out there is not good at all. The people are scared of the violence going on. I pray that the warring political parties allow the Edo people to decide; for they are truly tired. So you are sure of victory if the election is free and fair? Very sure if the people are allowed to vote. The people of Edo State have embraced the fact that I am the credible choice. What is your message to the electorate? Edo people must not fall prey by selling their votes for pittance. I have said times without number that Edo people’s votes is their power, hence they must vote for a woman of integrity like myself to restore sanity and peace in order to kick-start the economy of the state and make Edo people smile again.