The Lagos State Government has received and has commenced distribution of 107,546 food palliative packs from the Coalition Against COVID (CA-COVID) for the vulnerable. The Acting Commissioner for Agriculture, Ms Abisola Olusanya, at the handover said the food items were meant for the indigent residents of the state and the elderly. CA-COVID donates hospital equipment, PPE to Gombe isolation centres COVID-19: Lagos closes Eti-Osa Isolation Centre Olusanya further noted that the food items are being repackaged by the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure that the beneficiaries get the right quantity of items. “We do not want a situation where they receive the items and they claim that they have not received Garri or they have not received rice.” She said the CACOVID-19 team is also working alongside the State Government team to ensure accountability. The State Coordinator of CA-COVID, Mr. Amaechi Okobi commended Governor Sanwo-Olu for his leadership role in managing COVID-19 pandemic. He said over 1.6 million Nigerians need help. “All Nigerians need our help but we are focused on the lowest five per cent to ensure that in this extremely tough time, they are at least fed.” The Lagos State Government has received and has commenced distribution of 107,546 food palliative packs from the Coalition Against COVID (CA-COVID) for the vulnerable. The Acting Commissioner for Agriculture, Ms Abisola Olusanya, at the handover said the food items were meant for the indigent residents of the state and the elderly. CA-COVID donates hospital equipment, PPE to Gombe isolation centres COVID-19: Lagos closes Eti-Osa Isolation Centre Olusanya further noted that the food items are being repackaged by the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure that the beneficiaries get the right quantity of items. “We do not want a situation where they receive the items and they claim that they have not received Garri or they have not received rice.” She said the CACOVID-19 team is also working alongside the State Government team to ensure accountability. The State Coordinator of CA-COVID, Mr. Amaechi Okobi commended Governor Sanwo-Olu for his leadership role in managing COVID-19 pandemic. He said over 1.6 million Nigerians need help. “All Nigerians need our help but we are focused on the lowest five per cent to ensure that in this extremely tough time, they are at least fed.”