An Ibadan-based welder, Quozeem Owolabi, has taken his wife, Tunrayo, before a customary court sitting at Ile-Tuntun, Ibadan, Oyo State, seeking an end to their one-year-old marriage for what he called her failure to disclose to him that she already had three children for another man before their own marriage. Moreover, Tunrayo, Owolabi complained, had refused to be observing  both the Muslim prayers and Ramadan fast, contrary to what she promised him before they married. Court dissolves 20-year-old marriage over beating I beat my wife for sneaking into bachelor’s room, teacher tells court The petitioner told the court that Tunrayo had lied to him that she had only one child for another man before he married her, only for him to discover later that she actually had three. The young man, who said he was yet to have any child, alleged that the respondent had “frustrated” all his efforts to impregnate her. “She is ready to destroy my life because she had had babies for another man already. “In recent times, she has been leaving home in the morning and returning late at night. “These are the reasons I wish to divorce her,” he said. Tunrayo, who consented to the divorce, denied all the allegations Owolabi levelled against her. She said, “This man beats hell out of me often. “He gives me and my children only N300 daily. “I treated him with my money when he was ill, but when I fell ill, he didn’t care about me.” The president of the court, Henry Agbaje, adjourned judgment on the matter till September 30, 2020. An Ibadan-based welder, Quozeem Owolabi, has taken his wife, Tunrayo, before a customary court sitting at Ile-Tuntun, Ibadan, Oyo State, seeking an end to their one-year-old marriage for what he called her failure to disclose to him that she already had three children for another man before their own marriage. Moreover, Tunrayo, Owolabi complained, had refused to be observing  both the Muslim prayers and Ramadan fast, contrary to what she promised him before they married. Court dissolves 20-year-old marriage over beating I beat my wife for sneaking into bachelor’s room, teacher tells court The petitioner told the court that Tunrayo had lied to him that she had only one child for another man before he married her, only for him to discover later that she actually had three. The young man, who said he was yet to have any child, alleged that the respondent had “frustrated” all his efforts to impregnate her. “She is ready to destroy my life because she had had babies for another man already. “In recent times, she has been leaving home in the morning and returning late at night. “These are the reasons I wish to divorce her,” he said. Tunrayo, who consented to the divorce, denied all the allegations Owolabi levelled against her. She said, “This man beats hell out of me often. “He gives me and my children only N300 daily. “I treated him with my money when he was ill, but when I fell ill, he didn’t care about me.” The president of the court, Henry Agbaje, adjourned judgment on the matter till September 30, 2020.