The Nigerian Police Force, Madalla Division, Niger State Command, have shot two suspected robbers to death while they arrested five other accomplices. The robbers went to a neigbourhood in Madalla town, where they forced their way into some houses around Unguwar Dalhatu during the weekend, Daily Trust gathered. City News learnt that as the operation was being carried out around 3 am, Saturday, the police from Madalla division responded after they received a distress call from the area and engaged the robbers in a shoot-out. A police source in the area said one of the robbers was shot dead on the spot, while the second one was intercepted at the security checkpoint in Zuba, Abuja, while escaping to go for treatment. It was further learnt that the suspected robber led the police to their hideout near Panteka market in Deidei, where four of his accomplices were rounded off and arrested. Confirming the incident, the Divisional Police Officer of Madalla, CSP Adamu Danjuma, said one of the suspects was discovered to have attacked a house in Unguwar Makera, Madalla, last Friday, and in the process stabbed a resident, one Monday Ayuba,39, who later lost his life. He said the five suspects who have confessed to operating a gang of 10 and terrorizing residents around Kubwa, Dakwa and Deidei in Abuja, were handed over to the state police command CID in Minna, while efforts to locate the other gang members, is on the way. A brother to the deceased, Danjuma Barde, said the arrested suspect went into their compound around 2 am and after being nabbed by his late brother, they engaged in struggle but the thief managed to stab him with a scissors which led to his death. He said the deceased, 39, left behind a wife and three children. The Nigerian Police Force, Madalla Division, Niger State Command, have shot two suspected robbers to death while they arrested five other accomplices. The robbers went to a neigbourhood in Madalla town, where they forced their way into some houses around Unguwar Dalhatu during the weekend, Daily Trust gathered. City News learnt that as the operation was being carried out around 3 am, Saturday, the police from Madalla division responded after they received a distress call from the area and engaged the robbers in a shoot-out. A police source in the area said one of the robbers was shot dead on the spot, while the second one was intercepted at the security checkpoint in Zuba, Abuja, while escaping to go for treatment. It was further learnt that the suspected robber led the police to their hideout near Panteka market in Deidei, where four of his accomplices were rounded off and arrested. Confirming the incident, the Divisional Police Officer of Madalla, CSP Adamu Danjuma, said one of the suspects was discovered to have attacked a house in Unguwar Makera, Madalla, last Friday, and in the process stabbed a resident, one Monday Ayuba,39, who later lost his life. He said the five suspects who have confessed to operating a gang of 10 and terrorizing residents around Kubwa, Dakwa and Deidei in Abuja, were handed over to the state police command CID in Minna, while efforts to locate the other gang members, is on the way. A brother to the deceased, Danjuma Barde, said the arrested suspect went into their compound around 2 am and after being nabbed by his late brother, they engaged in struggle but the thief managed to stab him with a scissors which led to his death. He said the deceased, 39, left behind a wife and three children.