The Chairman of Abaji Area Council, Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya, said the council is synergizing with border states of Kogi, Niger and Nasarawa to tackle cases of kidnappings and armed banditry in the area. Ajiya stated this while addressing newsmen after a joint security meeting, which had in attendance; the chairmen of Toto Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, Nuhu A Dauda, Kogi Local Government Area, Abdulkarim Isah, and representatives of the chairman of Lapai Local Government Council of Niger State. The meeting, which held at the council’s conference hall also had in attendance, Chairman of Gwagwalada area council, Alhaji Adamu Mustapha, Kuje, Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, with leaders of vigilante groups from the three states as well as representatives of various security agents. Ajiya said there was need for the council to work with the three states to tackle incessant cases of armed bandits and kidnappers. “We are going to synergise with the three states which share boundaries with the FCT to ensure that we collectively take the fight to these criminals that have been terrorizing our people,” he said. Also speaking, the chairman of Toto Local Government council of Nasarawa State, Alhaji Nuhu A. Dauda, said the joint security meeting has become imperative because of the state of insecurity not only in Toto but across the country. He said the kidnappers and terrorists mostly use the axis of Abaji and other neighbouring local governments in Niger and Kogi states to carry out attacks on innocent people. “In fact, as I speak operation is currently ongoing by troops in my local government and it shares boundary with Abaji area council, hence, the joint security meeting will help to tackle activities of these criminals,” he said.  The Chairman of Abaji Area Council, Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya, said the council is synergizing with border states of Kogi, Niger and Nasarawa to tackle cases of kidnappings and armed banditry in the area. Ajiya stated this while addressing newsmen after a joint security meeting, which had in attendance; the chairmen of Toto Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, Nuhu A Dauda, Kogi Local Government Area, Abdulkarim Isah, and representatives of the chairman of Lapai Local Government Council of Niger State. The meeting, which held at the council’s conference hall also had in attendance, Chairman of Gwagwalada area council, Alhaji Adamu Mustapha, Kuje, Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, with leaders of vigilante groups from the three states as well as representatives of various security agents. Ajiya said there was need for the council to work with the three states to tackle incessant cases of armed bandits and kidnappers. “We are going to synergise with the three states which share boundaries with the FCT to ensure that we collectively take the fight to these criminals that have been terrorizing our people,” he said. Also speaking, the chairman of Toto Local Government council of Nasarawa State, Alhaji Nuhu A. Dauda, said the joint security meeting has become imperative because of the state of insecurity not only in Toto but across the country. He said the kidnappers and terrorists mostly use the axis of Abaji and other neighbouring local governments in Niger and Kogi states to carry out attacks on innocent people. “In fact, as I speak operation is currently ongoing by troops in my local government and it shares boundary with Abaji area council, hence, the joint security meeting will help to tackle activities of these criminals,” he said. 