President Muhammadu Buhari has hailed the election process in Edo State which led to the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). President Buhari, in a statement issued on Sunday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, congratulated the winner and urged him to show grace and humility in victory. The President, while reacting to the outcome of the election as announced by INEC, said: “My commitment to free and fair elections is firm, because without free and fair elections, the foundation of our political and moral authority will be weak.” “I have consistently advocated for free and fair elections in the country because it is the bedrock of true democratic order. “Democracy will mean nothing if the votes of the people don’t count or if their mandate is fraudulently tampered with,” the President added. He lauded the people of Edo State, the parties, candidates and security agencies for conducting themselves responsibly. President Muhammadu Buhari has hailed the election process in Edo State which led to the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). President Buhari, in a statement issued on Sunday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, congratulated the winner and urged him to show grace and humility in victory. The President, while reacting to the outcome of the election as announced by INEC, said: “My commitment to free and fair elections is firm, because without free and fair elections, the foundation of our political and moral authority will be weak.” “I have consistently advocated for free and fair elections in the country because it is the bedrock of true democratic order. “Democracy will mean nothing if the votes of the people don’t count or if their mandate is fraudulently tampered with,” the President added. He lauded the people of Edo State, the parties, candidates and security agencies for conducting themselves responsibly.