The North Central Governor’s Forum (NCGF) has disowned the “North Central Peoples Forum” saying the group is not recognized by the leadership of the North Central geopolitical zone. The Governor’s Forum in a communique issued after a virtual meeting presided over by the Chairman and governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello, declared that “as governors of the North Central Region, they are yet to be briefed about the objectives of the North Central Peoples Forum”. Although, NCGF admitted that the North Central Peoples Forum, like any other group in the country, is entitled to freedom of association but they, as Governors of the region would not recognise it as they were never consulted “either collectively or individually before its emergence”. The North Central Peoples Forum is led by former Agriculture Minister, Dr. Audu Ogbeh, a Christian, who has often been accused of being a lackey of the core north and its agenda. The North Central Governor’s while disowning the group, claimed that “The Governors saw the news in the media just like other NIGERIANS. “We wish to state categorically that the governors are not part of the North Central Peoples Forum and shall not participate in its activities. “We recognise the constitutional right of individuals and groups such as the North Central Peoples Forum to form lawful associations and pursue their aspirations. “We reaffirm that as the North Central Governors we believe and are committed to the oneness of the North”. The Governor’s Forum however expressed it loyalty to the leadership of the Northern Governor’s Forum under the Chairmanship of the governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong. “We remain strongly committed to the objectives of the Northern Governors Forum under the leadership of Governor Simon Bako Lalong of Plateau State. “We restate that the North Central Governors Forum shall continue to work for the sustainable socio-economic development of the North Central region and the progress of its people. The NCGF, therefore, maintained that it “shall continue to welcome views, suggestions, recommendations, and ideas that seek to promote the unity and development of the North Central”. The North Central Governor’s Forum (NCGF) has disowned the “North Central Peoples Forum” saying the group is not recognized by the leadership of the North Central geopolitical zone. The Governor’s Forum in a communique issued after a virtual meeting presided over by the Chairman and governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello, declared that “as governors of the North Central Region, they are yet to be briefed about the objectives of the North Central Peoples Forum”. Although, NCGF admitted that the North Central Peoples Forum, like any other group in the country, is entitled to freedom of association but they, as Governors of the region would not recognise it as they were never consulted “either collectively or individually before its emergence”. The North Central Peoples Forum is led by former Agriculture Minister, Dr. Audu Ogbeh, a Christian, who has often been accused of being a lackey of the core north and its agenda. The North Central Governor’s while disowning the group, claimed that “The Governors saw the news in the media just like other NIGERIANS. “We wish to state categorically that the governors are not part of the North Central Peoples Forum and shall not participate in its activities. “We recognise the constitutional right of individuals and groups such as the North Central Peoples Forum to form lawful associations and pursue their aspirations. “We reaffirm that as the North Central Governors we believe and are committed to the oneness of the North”. The Governor’s Forum however expressed it loyalty to the leadership of the Northern Governor’s Forum under the Chairmanship of the governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong. “We remain strongly committed to the objectives of the Northern Governors Forum under the leadership of Governor Simon Bako Lalong of Plateau State. “We restate that the North Central Governors Forum shall continue to work for the sustainable socio-economic development of the North Central region and the progress of its people. The NCGF, therefore, maintained that it “shall continue to welcome views, suggestions, recommendations, and ideas that seek to promote the unity and development of the North Central”.