The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has protested what it termed clampdown on governors elected on its platform, by security agents in Benin City, Edo state capital, ahead of Saturday’s governorship election. The PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, said at a press conference on Friday night in Abuja, that party leaders were shocked at the development and asked the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu to wade in. “The party expresses shock that security agents were detailed to surround the lodging of our governors to harass and intimidate them, whereas APC governors, including the governor of Kano state, Abdullahi Ganduje, his Imo state counterpart, Hope Uzodimma as well as the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, are left free in the comfort of the residence of the sacked national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole in GRA, Benin City. “Our party considers this siege as provocative and completely unacceptable as there cannot be two sets of laws for the citizens of our nation. In as much as the APC governors are given the liberty to stay in Benin City, our governors must not be harassed or stampeded to leave the state. “At any rate, we are confident that our governors will not allow themselves to be stampeded. “The PDP calls on all stakeholders in the Edo governorship election, particularly the security agencies, to work towards a peaceful, credible, transparent, free and fair election on Saturday,” the PDP said. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has protested what it termed clampdown on governors elected on its platform, by security agents in Benin City, Edo state capital, ahead of Saturday’s governorship election. The PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, said at a press conference on Friday night in Abuja, that party leaders were shocked at the development and asked the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu to wade in. “The party expresses shock that security agents were detailed to surround the lodging of our governors to harass and intimidate them, whereas APC governors, including the governor of Kano state, Abdullahi Ganduje, his Imo state counterpart, Hope Uzodimma as well as the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, are left free in the comfort of the residence of the sacked national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole in GRA, Benin City. “Our party considers this siege as provocative and completely unacceptable as there cannot be two sets of laws for the citizens of our nation. In as much as the APC governors are given the liberty to stay in Benin City, our governors must not be harassed or stampeded to leave the state. “At any rate, we are confident that our governors will not allow themselves to be stampeded. “The PDP calls on all stakeholders in the Edo governorship election, particularly the security agencies, to work towards a peaceful, credible, transparent, free and fair election on Saturday,” the PDP said.