Former Deputy National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode George has described the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki in the October 31st election in Edo State as the rejection of “Bullion Van Democracy.” “The good people of Edo State have spoken loud and clear. They have spoken without ambiguity, without equivocal expression. They were bold and brave. They rejected the bullion van democracy. They stood against outside interlopers,” George who is the Atona of Yoruba land said. According to him, the Edo people were firm and committed to the purity of the democratic process. “In the end, their will has prevailed,” he added. The PDP leader commended the peaceful conduct of the election, saying, “The election was peaceful, fair and just.” He said the security operatives were much alert to their responsibilities, adding that INEC also conducted itself “in a worthy manner” by being neutral and fair. George noted that President Muhammadu Buhari has equally lived up to his words when he observed before the election that he will basically ensure that there will be no interference with the democratic process. “There may yet be a renewal for the Nigerian democracy with Edo state trail blazing decision,” he said. While hailing Obaseki for the victory, he said the people of Edo have made their choice in the person of Governor Godwin Obaseki “who himself had braved all odds and all the dark schemings and intrigues of the undemocratic forces. He has triumphed over what seemed a great hurdle.” George however stated that the victory of PDP in Edo would soon be replicated in Lagos, saying, “Lagosians are equally sick and tired of 21 years of underdevelopment and massive gutting of their treasury. Enough of the primitive monetized ways of godfatherism.” “And as for those who have appropriated the treasury of Lagos state as their private coffers, brazenly swaggering in their Bullion Van democracy, it is obvious that their time is up. Even here in Lagos, there is a dawning realization that the slave-drivers will soon be chased out of town through the ballot box,” he said. Former Deputy National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode George has described the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki in the October 31st election in Edo State as the rejection of “Bullion Van Democracy.” “The good people of Edo State have spoken loud and clear. They have spoken without ambiguity, without equivocal expression. They were bold and brave. They rejected the bullion van democracy. They stood against outside interlopers,” George who is the Atona of Yoruba land said. According to him, the Edo people were firm and committed to the purity of the democratic process. “In the end, their will has prevailed,” he added. The PDP leader commended the peaceful conduct of the election, saying, “The election was peaceful, fair and just.” He said the security operatives were much alert to their responsibilities, adding that INEC also conducted itself “in a worthy manner” by being neutral and fair. George noted that President Muhammadu Buhari has equally lived up to his words when he observed before the election that he will basically ensure that there will be no interference with the democratic process. “There may yet be a renewal for the Nigerian democracy with Edo state trail blazing decision,” he said. While hailing Obaseki for the victory, he said the people of Edo have made their choice in the person of Governor Godwin Obaseki “who himself had braved all odds and all the dark schemings and intrigues of the undemocratic forces. He has triumphed over what seemed a great hurdle.” George however stated that the victory of PDP in Edo would soon be replicated in Lagos, saying, “Lagosians are equally sick and tired of 21 years of underdevelopment and massive gutting of their treasury. Enough of the primitive monetized ways of godfatherism.” “And as for those who have appropriated the treasury of Lagos state as their private coffers, brazenly swaggering in their Bullion Van democracy, it is obvious that their time is up. Even here in Lagos, there is a dawning realization that the slave-drivers will soon be chased out of town through the ballot box,” he said.