The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) for the management of the FCT Women Rehabilitation Centre located at Sabo-Lugbe in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). FCT Minister of State Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, who presided over the signing of the MoU, called on both parties to respect the terms and conditions of the agreement, saying the centre would be managed by NAPTIP for two years. “I want to appreciate our sister, the Director-General of NAPTIP, who is always there for the plight of the vulnerable women and youths, and anything against their fundamental human rights. She goes out of her comfort zone to ensure that none is maligned in society. And today’s event has demonstrated her zeal to go out of her way to look for more decent accommodation for our vulnerable women,” she said. The Director-General of NAPTIP, Dame Julie Okah-Donli, who spoke earlier, assured that the collaboration would yield positive results, stressing that the centre would be a beacon of women rehabilitation and empowerment.  The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) for the management of the FCT Women Rehabilitation Centre located at Sabo-Lugbe in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). FCT Minister of State Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, who presided over the signing of the MoU, called on both parties to respect the terms and conditions of the agreement, saying the centre would be managed by NAPTIP for two years. “I want to appreciate our sister, the Director-General of NAPTIP, who is always there for the plight of the vulnerable women and youths, and anything against their fundamental human rights. She goes out of her comfort zone to ensure that none is maligned in society. And today’s event has demonstrated her zeal to go out of her way to look for more decent accommodation for our vulnerable women,” she said. The Director-General of NAPTIP, Dame Julie Okah-Donli, who spoke earlier, assured that the collaboration would yield positive results, stressing that the centre would be a beacon of women rehabilitation and empowerment. 