Air assets acquired under the Deep Blue Project, domiciled with the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) are set for deployment by the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) towards improving maritime security. The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, announced this when the Director-General of NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, paid a visit to the Nigerian Air Force headquarters in Abuja. Bayelsa seeks NIMASA’s support on $3bn Agge deep seaport Make Edo election a model — Wike urges Buhari The NIMASA DG had requested adequate arrangement to receive and deploy the two special mission aircraft expected in the country in the next few months. “We have received two Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) and the two special mission aircraft are expected to arrive in Nigeria before the end of the year. “We will continue to seek your partnership to secure the Nigerian maritime domain.” Dr. Jamoh disclosed that 17 fast interceptor boats, 15 armoured vehicles and two special mission vessels were some of the land and marine assets already on the ground. Abubakar said NAF had maintained a longstanding cordial relationship with NIMASA, with an MOU on Maritime Air Surveillance and Intelligence signed in 2013. He further stated the initiatives of the force. “We are working towards establishing UAV wings in Lagos, Calabar, and Port Harcourt to support other security agencies in maintaining the security of the maritime environment.” Abubakar assured the DG that the Air Force would do everything in its power to partner with NIMASA on the Deep Blue Project, saying the federal government is doing everything humanly possible to secure Nigeria and Nigerians. The Deep Blue Project also called the Integrated National Security and Waterways Protection Infrastructure aims to comprehensively tackle insecurity in Nigeria’s territorial waters and Exclusive Economic Zone, up to the Gulf of Guinea. Air assets acquired under the Deep Blue Project, domiciled with the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) are set for deployment by the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) towards improving maritime security. The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, announced this when the Director-General of NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, paid a visit to the Nigerian Air Force headquarters in Abuja. Bayelsa seeks NIMASA’s support on $3bn Agge deep seaport Make Edo election a model — Wike urges Buhari The NIMASA DG had requested adequate arrangement to receive and deploy the two special mission aircraft expected in the country in the next few months. “We have received two Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) and the two special mission aircraft are expected to arrive in Nigeria before the end of the year. “We will continue to seek your partnership to secure the Nigerian maritime domain.” Dr. Jamoh disclosed that 17 fast interceptor boats, 15 armoured vehicles and two special mission vessels were some of the land and marine assets already on the ground. Abubakar said NAF had maintained a longstanding cordial relationship with NIMASA, with an MOU on Maritime Air Surveillance and Intelligence signed in 2013. He further stated the initiatives of the force. “We are working towards establishing UAV wings in Lagos, Calabar, and Port Harcourt to support other security agencies in maintaining the security of the maritime environment.” Abubakar assured the DG that the Air Force would do everything in its power to partner with NIMASA on the Deep Blue Project, saying the federal government is doing everything humanly possible to secure Nigeria and Nigerians. The Deep Blue Project also called the Integrated National Security and Waterways Protection Infrastructure aims to comprehensively tackle insecurity in Nigeria’s territorial waters and Exclusive Economic Zone, up to the Gulf of Guinea.