The Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) has said it is partnering the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practice Commission (ICPC) to recover unremitted FG revenue from 2016 to 2019. The RMAFC also said the three agencies will carry out a nationwide verification and reconciliation exercise on revenue inflows and remittances from relevant organizations to the appropriate government treasury covering 1st January 2016 to 31st Dec 2019 as the exercise is to take off in the first week of October 2020. Nwachukwu Christian, the RMAFC PRO said the RMAFC Chairman Engr. Elias Mbam disclosed during an interactive session organized for the consultants that are engaged in carrying out this exercise in Abuja. Engr. Mbam reiterated that, RMAFC’s mandate includes monitoring all revenue accruals into the Federation Account and disbursement while blocking leakages. This according to him is in line with President Muhamadu Buhari’s charge while inaugurating the Chairman and Members of the Commission to use all legal ways and means to block all revenue leakages and maximize revenue inflow to the Federation account. The RMAFC boss noted that the collaboration with EFCC and ICPC is to provide close monitoring of the recovered accruable funds to the Federation’s account while advising participating organizations not to join issues with any defaulting organization but rather, submit their established reports to the Commission through the Coordinating Committee of the project. In his remarks Mr.Hamza Abdulahi who represented the acting Chairman of EFCC Mr. Mohammed Umar, said that, EFCC has helped to recover more than three hundred billion naira in a similar collaboration with the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), promising not to compromise EFCC’s track record by making sure that every revenue defaulter will be made to face the full rot of the law. The Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) has said it is partnering the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practice Commission (ICPC) to recover unremitted FG revenue from 2016 to 2019. The RMAFC also said the three agencies will carry out a nationwide verification and reconciliation exercise on revenue inflows and remittances from relevant organizations to the appropriate government treasury covering 1st January 2016 to 31st Dec 2019 as the exercise is to take off in the first week of October 2020. Nwachukwu Christian, the RMAFC PRO said the RMAFC Chairman Engr. Elias Mbam disclosed during an interactive session organized for the consultants that are engaged in carrying out this exercise in Abuja. Engr. Mbam reiterated that, RMAFC’s mandate includes monitoring all revenue accruals into the Federation Account and disbursement while blocking leakages. This according to him is in line with President Muhamadu Buhari’s charge while inaugurating the Chairman and Members of the Commission to use all legal ways and means to block all revenue leakages and maximize revenue inflow to the Federation account. The RMAFC boss noted that the collaboration with EFCC and ICPC is to provide close monitoring of the recovered accruable funds to the Federation’s account while advising participating organizations not to join issues with any defaulting organization but rather, submit their established reports to the Commission through the Coordinating Committee of the project. In his remarks Mr.Hamza Abdulahi who represented the acting Chairman of EFCC Mr. Mohammed Umar, said that, EFCC has helped to recover more than three hundred billion naira in a similar collaboration with the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), promising not to compromise EFCC’s track record by making sure that every revenue defaulter will be made to face the full rot of the law.