The Osun State Police Command has taken to court three suspected armed robbers it said had been terrorising the Orile-Owu community in Osun State. The defendants are Samson Lucas, Ayo Olamide and Olalekan. Katsina: Police reward 3 indigenes for disarming, killing bandits Kano Shari’a police arrests 648 beggars for street begging The police said they apprehended the men when they caused panic in the community on September 3, 2020 at about 1am by openly brandishing charms and dangerous weapons after smoking weed believed to be Indian hemp. The police quoted some residents of the community as saying that Lucas and Olamide, both 25 years old, drafted 22-year-old Olalekan into the gang and the trio were causing confusion in the town. The three men were arraigned at an Osogbo magistrate court on Wednesday for attempted robbery, and unlawful possession of arms, charms and wraps of suspected Indian hemp. The police prosecutor, Inspector Elisha Olusegun, told the court that the defendants attempted to commit armed robbery in the community. The men pleaded not guilty to the charge levelled against them, saying they preferred smoking cannabis to cigarette because “cigarette is injurious to our health.” Their counsel, Tunbosun Oladipupo, applied for their bail. Magistrate Ishola Omisade granted the defendants bail in the sum of N300,000, with one surety in like sum, and adjourned the case till October 8, 2020. The Osun State Police Command has taken to court three suspected armed robbers it said had been terrorising the Orile-Owu community in Osun State. The defendants are Samson Lucas, Ayo Olamide and Olalekan. Katsina: Police reward 3 indigenes for disarming, killing bandits Kano Shari’a police arrests 648 beggars for street begging The police said they apprehended the men when they caused panic in the community on September 3, 2020 at about 1am by openly brandishing charms and dangerous weapons after smoking weed believed to be Indian hemp. The police quoted some residents of the community as saying that Lucas and Olamide, both 25 years old, drafted 22-year-old Olalekan into the gang and the trio were causing confusion in the town. The three men were arraigned at an Osogbo magistrate court on Wednesday for attempted robbery, and unlawful possession of arms, charms and wraps of suspected Indian hemp. The police prosecutor, Inspector Elisha Olusegun, told the court that the defendants attempted to commit armed robbery in the community. The men pleaded not guilty to the charge levelled against them, saying they preferred smoking cannabis to cigarette because “cigarette is injurious to our health.” Their counsel, Tunbosun Oladipupo, applied for their bail. Magistrate Ishola Omisade granted the defendants bail in the sum of N300,000, with one surety in like sum, and adjourned the case till October 8, 2020.