The People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo state, has raise alarm over voting  at polling Unit 3, Ward 3, in Orhionmwon local government of the state. The state publicity secretary, Chris Nehikhare, in a statement, said as  at the point of declaring the result, the people discovered that the accredited voters figure was less than the total number of votes cast. “We want to bring to the notice of all Nigerians and lovers of democracy that INEC staff have being found complici in an attempt to subvert the will of the people of Unit 3, Ward 3, in Orhionmwon local government.” He described the development as unacceptable and that the polling officer was complicit in the malpractice. He called for the cancellation of the result as there is no other explanation for such other than  ballot papers were stuffed in the ballot box to criminally subvert the will of the people. “Edo PDP hereby demands for the immediate arrest of the Polling Officer who we believe is comprised as his suggested solution to the embarrassing anomaly was to minus the excess figure from the scores of both parties. “INEC is hereby advised to do the right thing in delivering free, transparent, credible and fair elections,” he said. The People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo state, has raise alarm over voting  at polling Unit 3, Ward 3, in Orhionmwon local government of the state. The state publicity secretary, Chris Nehikhare, in a statement, said as  at the point of declaring the result, the people discovered that the accredited voters figure was less than the total number of votes cast. “We want to bring to the notice of all Nigerians and lovers of democracy that INEC staff have being found complici in an attempt to subvert the will of the people of Unit 3, Ward 3, in Orhionmwon local government.” He described the development as unacceptable and that the polling officer was complicit in the malpractice. He called for the cancellation of the result as there is no other explanation for such other than  ballot papers were stuffed in the ballot box to criminally subvert the will of the people. “Edo PDP hereby demands for the immediate arrest of the Polling Officer who we believe is comprised as his suggested solution to the embarrassing anomaly was to minus the excess figure from the scores of both parties. “INEC is hereby advised to do the right thing in delivering free, transparent, credible and fair elections,” he said.