An Aviation analyst, Capt. Ibrahim Yunusa, has lauded the reciprocity policy of the Federal Government as international flights resume, saying this is in line with the Bilateral Air Service Agreements (BASAs). “What the Federal Government has done is right. Air transportation business between countries is reciprocal and diplomatic. BASA agreement entails two-way traffic or compensation in lieu of it,” he said. Daily Trust reports that the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, had, prior to the resumption of flights on Saturday, September 5, had said: “If you ban us from coming to your country, the same will apply the other way.” It was on the basis of this that Air France, KLM, and other foreign airlines were banned. Capt. Yunusa said the action of the federal government will boost the integrity of Nigeria as a diplomatic country. He however expressed dismay that Nigeria is unable to reciprocate into most of the countries operating flights to Nigeria. Daily Trust reports that Nigeria has BASA with over 90 countries and still counting. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, there are no fewer than 22 foreign airlines operating into the country while Air Peace is the only Nigerian carrier doing international flights. Meanwhile, Egypt Air has said it would resume services to Lagos today and to Abuja on Thursday.  An Aviation analyst, Capt. Ibrahim Yunusa, has lauded the reciprocity policy of the Federal Government as international flights resume, saying this is in line with the Bilateral Air Service Agreements (BASAs). “What the Federal Government has done is right. Air transportation business between countries is reciprocal and diplomatic. BASA agreement entails two-way traffic or compensation in lieu of it,” he said. Daily Trust reports that the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, had, prior to the resumption of flights on Saturday, September 5, had said: “If you ban us from coming to your country, the same will apply the other way.” It was on the basis of this that Air France, KLM, and other foreign airlines were banned. Capt. Yunusa said the action of the federal government will boost the integrity of Nigeria as a diplomatic country. He however expressed dismay that Nigeria is unable to reciprocate into most of the countries operating flights to Nigeria. Daily Trust reports that Nigeria has BASA with over 90 countries and still counting. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, there are no fewer than 22 foreign airlines operating into the country while Air Peace is the only Nigerian carrier doing international flights. Meanwhile, Egypt Air has said it would resume services to Lagos today and to Abuja on Thursday. 