Kaspersky Security Solutions has reported 28 million malware attacks and 102m detections of Potentially Unwanted Programmes including pornware and adware, as of early August 2020. A statement said the numbers show that it’s not only the malware that attacks users but also the “grey zone” programmes that grow in popularity and disturb their experiences, while users might not even know it is there. Analysis shows that in Nigeria, there were 3.8m malware attacks and 16.8m PUA detections – which is four times as much. Kenyan and South African threat landscapes have been more intense. In South Africa, there were almost 10m malware attacks and a staggering 43m PUA detections. Kenyan users faced even more malware attacks – around 14m, and 41m PUA appearances. It also said PUAs are not only more widespread but also more potent than traditional malware. PUAs are programmes that are usually not considered to be malicious by themselves. However, they are generally influencing user experience in a negative way. “The problem with them is that users are not always aware they consented to the installation of such programmes on their device and that in some cases, such programmes are exploited or used as a disguise for malware downloads. This is why many security solutions, including ours, flag such programmes to make sure users are aware of its presence, influence on their device and activity,” said Denis Parinov, a security researcher at Kaspersky.  Kaspersky Security Solutions has reported 28 million malware attacks and 102m detections of Potentially Unwanted Programmes including pornware and adware, as of early August 2020. A statement said the numbers show that it’s not only the malware that attacks users but also the “grey zone” programmes that grow in popularity and disturb their experiences, while users might not even know it is there. Analysis shows that in Nigeria, there were 3.8m malware attacks and 16.8m PUA detections – which is four times as much. Kenyan and South African threat landscapes have been more intense. In South Africa, there were almost 10m malware attacks and a staggering 43m PUA detections. Kenyan users faced even more malware attacks – around 14m, and 41m PUA appearances. It also said PUAs are not only more widespread but also more potent than traditional malware. PUAs are programmes that are usually not considered to be malicious by themselves. However, they are generally influencing user experience in a negative way. “The problem with them is that users are not always aware they consented to the installation of such programmes on their device and that in some cases, such programmes are exploited or used as a disguise for malware downloads. This is why many security solutions, including ours, flag such programmes to make sure users are aware of its presence, influence on their device and activity,” said Denis Parinov, a security researcher at Kaspersky. 