PZ Cussons Nigeria shareholders have approved the resolutions to authorise their Board of Directors to sell a portion of land to FrieslandCampina  Wamco Nigeria PLC at its Ikorodu Industrial Estate, precisely the NUTRICIMA factory in Lagos. In a statement, the management of PZ Cussons said the approval was reached at an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) held recently at its Ilupeju premises in Lagos. Chairman of the firm, Chief Kola Jamodu, said the operations of NUTRICIMA in some respects integrated with those of the PZ Cussons Nigeria as land assets used by NUTRICIMA for its operations are owned by PZ Cussons Nigeria. He briefed the shareholders of the benefits derivable from the sale of the immovable assets. This includes an increase in the retained earnings of PZ Cussons Nigeria PLC ‘by unlocking value in the Company’s real property assets.’ The shareholders approved the resolutions unanimously. NUTRICIMA Nigeria Limited, a manufacturer of dairy products, is owned by Milk Ventures Limited – a UK-registered limited liability company- owned by PZ Cussons PLC U.K. PZ Cussons UK is the parent company of PZ Cussons Nigeria PLC.  PZ Cussons Nigeria shareholders have approved the resolutions to authorise their Board of Directors to sell a portion of land to FrieslandCampina  Wamco Nigeria PLC at its Ikorodu Industrial Estate, precisely the NUTRICIMA factory in Lagos. In a statement, the management of PZ Cussons said the approval was reached at an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) held recently at its Ilupeju premises in Lagos. Chairman of the firm, Chief Kola Jamodu, said the operations of NUTRICIMA in some respects integrated with those of the PZ Cussons Nigeria as land assets used by NUTRICIMA for its operations are owned by PZ Cussons Nigeria. He briefed the shareholders of the benefits derivable from the sale of the immovable assets. This includes an increase in the retained earnings of PZ Cussons Nigeria PLC ‘by unlocking value in the Company’s real property assets.’ The shareholders approved the resolutions unanimously. NUTRICIMA Nigeria Limited, a manufacturer of dairy products, is owned by Milk Ventures Limited – a UK-registered limited liability company- owned by PZ Cussons PLC U.K. PZ Cussons UK is the parent company of PZ Cussons Nigeria PLC. 