The Co-founder and CEO of VerifyMe Nigeria, Esigie Aguele, has identified digital identity as a sustainable pathway for growing non-oil revenue streams such as e-Commerce and FinTech. Aguele while announcing the International Identity Day Virtual Conference scheduled to hold September 16, 2020, said the importance of a robust digital identity infrastructure as a bedrock for nation building cannot be overemphasized, particularly as the country seeks to recover from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Conversation at the conference themed ‘Enabling Nigeria’s Economic and Social Growth with Digital Identity’; he said will examine how a holistic digital identity system will unlock the potential within the country’s e-governance and the digital economy. “As a key player in the Nigerian identity verification space, VerifyMe is passionate about enabling initiatives that enhance the value proposition within the digital identity ecosystem. “We see this conversation both as a forum to express that passion and also as a national service towards supporting the government’s efforts at achieving a legal identity for all citizens.” Since 2017, a global coalition of countries and United Nations affiliates christened the 16th of September as International ID-Day to create awareness for Target 16.9 of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).  The Co-founder and CEO of VerifyMe Nigeria, Esigie Aguele, has identified digital identity as a sustainable pathway for growing non-oil revenue streams such as e-Commerce and FinTech. Aguele while announcing the International Identity Day Virtual Conference scheduled to hold September 16, 2020, said the importance of a robust digital identity infrastructure as a bedrock for nation building cannot be overemphasized, particularly as the country seeks to recover from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Conversation at the conference themed ‘Enabling Nigeria’s Economic and Social Growth with Digital Identity’; he said will examine how a holistic digital identity system will unlock the potential within the country’s e-governance and the digital economy. “As a key player in the Nigerian identity verification space, VerifyMe is passionate about enabling initiatives that enhance the value proposition within the digital identity ecosystem. “We see this conversation both as a forum to express that passion and also as a national service towards supporting the government’s efforts at achieving a legal identity for all citizens.” Since 2017, a global coalition of countries and United Nations affiliates christened the 16th of September as International ID-Day to create awareness for Target 16.9 of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). 