The chairman of Kuje Area Council, Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, said his administration will ensure that teachers are deployed to rural primary schools in order to enhance quality and effective teaching of pupils. He, however, said the council must first sanitise the Local Education Authority (LEA) in the area, which he said was in charge of deployments and posting of teachers to various schools. Sabo spoke when he received the Kuje and Rubochi executives of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), led by their chairmen, Comrade Tanimu Taru and Comrade Audu Lucky Jane, in his office on Monday. He expressed concern over the concentration of teachers in primary schools in urban areas across the council, stressing that it was unacceptable for teachers to be posted to urban centres while schools in rural communities do not have enough. He assured that his administration would ensure synergy with the NUT to achieve its desired goals. “It’s unfortunate that most of our primary schools in rural communities lack enough teachers while 90 per cent are concentrated in urban schools. This is unacceptable, hence, we will sanitise the LEAs in no distant time,” he said. Earlier, the Chairman of Rubochi branch of the NUT, Comrade Audu Lucky Jane, while speaking on behalf of the union’s executives, said the two branches decided to pay a courtesy visit to the council chairman to appreciate him for implementation of the teachers 2018 promotion. The chairman of Kuje Area Council, Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, said his administration will ensure that teachers are deployed to rural primary schools in order to enhance quality and effective teaching of pupils. He, however, said the council must first sanitise the Local Education Authority (LEA) in the area, which he said was in charge of deployments and posting of teachers to various schools. Sabo spoke when he received the Kuje and Rubochi executives of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), led by their chairmen, Comrade Tanimu Taru and Comrade Audu Lucky Jane, in his office on Monday. He expressed concern over the concentration of teachers in primary schools in urban areas across the council, stressing that it was unacceptable for teachers to be posted to urban centres while schools in rural communities do not have enough. He assured that his administration would ensure synergy with the NUT to achieve its desired goals. “It’s unfortunate that most of our primary schools in rural communities lack enough teachers while 90 per cent are concentrated in urban schools. This is unacceptable, hence, we will sanitise the LEAs in no distant time,” he said. Earlier, the Chairman of Rubochi branch of the NUT, Comrade Audu Lucky Jane, while speaking on behalf of the union’s executives, said the two branches decided to pay a courtesy visit to the council chairman to appreciate him for implementation of the teachers 2018 promotion.