Screams and shouts of excitement rented the air in the cities of Lokoja, Kano, Abuja, Akure and Lagos as 43 winners in the Dangote Cement spell and win promo took to the dance floor having received instant credit alerts of N1 million on their phones. At the prize-giving ceremonies held in the five cities, winners who sat passively while listening to speeches and remarks from the company’s officials became lively and started dancing to the popular song, ‘I don get alert, God win’ as soon as they got evidence of the cash prize of N1m in their accounts. A visibly elated Elemide Babatunde Titus, one of the winners, said that Dangote Cement has kept its word of giving N1m to the star prize winners as all of them received credit alerts at the venue. Titus also charged the public to continue to buy and use Dangote Cement, promising that users of the company’s products will smile in the long run. A school teacher, Ajayi Oluwatoyin Risikat, who also won N1m described the cash prize as God sent. She disclosed that following the lockdown, she has been at home without salary but decided to take up a job as a store keeper at a construction site. In the process, she was able to gather the scratch cards and spelt Dangote, earning N1m. Alhaji Jibrin at the Lokoja Centre, said he would reinvest the money and grow his business. The National Sales Director, Dangote Cement Plc. Adeyemi Fajobi, said the company has softened the process of becoming millionaires as only alphabets are required to become one. The Director of Marketing, Dangote Cement, Mrs. Funmi Sanni, commended the winners who are consumers of cement products.  Screams and shouts of excitement rented the air in the cities of Lokoja, Kano, Abuja, Akure and Lagos as 43 winners in the Dangote Cement spell and win promo took to the dance floor having received instant credit alerts of N1 million on their phones. At the prize-giving ceremonies held in the five cities, winners who sat passively while listening to speeches and remarks from the company’s officials became lively and started dancing to the popular song, ‘I don get alert, God win’ as soon as they got evidence of the cash prize of N1m in their accounts. A visibly elated Elemide Babatunde Titus, one of the winners, said that Dangote Cement has kept its word of giving N1m to the star prize winners as all of them received credit alerts at the venue. Titus also charged the public to continue to buy and use Dangote Cement, promising that users of the company’s products will smile in the long run. A school teacher, Ajayi Oluwatoyin Risikat, who also won N1m described the cash prize as God sent. She disclosed that following the lockdown, she has been at home without salary but decided to take up a job as a store keeper at a construction site. In the process, she was able to gather the scratch cards and spelt Dangote, earning N1m. Alhaji Jibrin at the Lokoja Centre, said he would reinvest the money and grow his business. The National Sales Director, Dangote Cement Plc. Adeyemi Fajobi, said the company has softened the process of becoming millionaires as only alphabets are required to become one. The Director of Marketing, Dangote Cement, Mrs. Funmi Sanni, commended the winners who are consumers of cement products. 