The Senator Kabir Garba Marafa faction of All Progressive Congress in Zamfara state has asked the government and other relevant security agencies especially police not take threat by the former governor Abdulaziz Yari’s faction of APC with kids gloves. Speaking to newsmen in Gusau, the Publicity secretary of Senator Kabir Garba Marafa faction of APC Bello Bakyasuwa condemned a video clip circulating in which one Sunusi Mai-bakin-zuma, a loyalist of Abdulaziz Yari was threatening to unleash violence over arrest of some members of the party last week. Bakyasuwa called on the loyalists of former Governor Abdulaziz Yari Abubakar to avoid making inflammatory remarks that are capable of breaching public peace in the state. “It’s rather compelling that, we in the APC faction under the able leadership of Sen. Kabiru Garba Marafa, to strongly condemn and disassociate ourselves from such abysmal show of rascality, irresponsibility, and threat to the fragile peace in Zamfara state” “We condemned totally any attempt by whosoever to trample on anybody’s fundamental human rights or the violation of our constitution or orchestrating any act of aggression to anybody for any reason regardless of his or her political affiliation and under whatever disguise,” he said. “We equally dissociate ourselves from any form of rascality and irresponsibility by way of any demonstration, illegal gathering and or press conference by some minions with thugs brandishing weapons” ” Such irresponsible acts include calling institutionally recognized government and personalities like the state commissioner of police stupid. This is totally unacceptable and should be condemned by all and sundry. For us, it has fallen below the minimum standard of behavior expected from any civilized personality, group or association.” “The threat to take law into their hands should not be treated with kids’ gloves, the government and relevant security agencies must be up and doing to protect and promote the much needed peace achieved in the last one and half years,” he added. The Senator Kabir Garba Marafa faction of All Progressive Congress in Zamfara state has asked the government and other relevant security agencies especially police not take threat by the former governor Abdulaziz Yari’s faction of APC with kids gloves. Speaking to newsmen in Gusau, the Publicity secretary of Senator Kabir Garba Marafa faction of APC Bello Bakyasuwa condemned a video clip circulating in which one Sunusi Mai-bakin-zuma, a loyalist of Abdulaziz Yari was threatening to unleash violence over arrest of some members of the party last week. Bakyasuwa called on the loyalists of former Governor Abdulaziz Yari Abubakar to avoid making inflammatory remarks that are capable of breaching public peace in the state. “It’s rather compelling that, we in the APC faction under the able leadership of Sen. Kabiru Garba Marafa, to strongly condemn and disassociate ourselves from such abysmal show of rascality, irresponsibility, and threat to the fragile peace in Zamfara state” “We condemned totally any attempt by whosoever to trample on anybody’s fundamental human rights or the violation of our constitution or orchestrating any act of aggression to anybody for any reason regardless of his or her political affiliation and under whatever disguise,” he said. “We equally dissociate ourselves from any form of rascality and irresponsibility by way of any demonstration, illegal gathering and or press conference by some minions with thugs brandishing weapons” ” Such irresponsible acts include calling institutionally recognized government and personalities like the state commissioner of police stupid. This is totally unacceptable and should be condemned by all and sundry. For us, it has fallen below the minimum standard of behavior expected from any civilized personality, group or association.” “The threat to take law into their hands should not be treated with kids’ gloves, the government and relevant security agencies must be up and doing to protect and promote the much needed peace achieved in the last one and half years,” he added.