The new Executive Secretary/CEO, Federal Government Staff Housing Loans Board (FGSHLB), Alhaji Ibrahim Mairiga, assumed office in Abuja on Monday. He was appointed last Friday by President Muhammadu Buhari, to take over from Dr. Hannatu Fika. The new ES held a brief meeting with the heads of Departments, Divisions and Units to familiarize himself with the Management staff. Spokesman of the board, Mr. Akinwale Adegbola, quoted Mairiga as promising to run an all-inclusive administration and fully digitalize the operations and work processes of the board. According to him, this will simplify application, review, profiling and release of funds to loan applicants and beneficiaries, as well as facilitate the ease of doing business, in line with the ideals of President Buhari led administration. The news ES also pledged to bring his wealth of experience in different fields across the MDAs to reposition the board for efficient service delivery. The Deputy Director, Hajia Salamatu Ladi-Ahmed who had superintended over the affairs of the Board before the appointment of Alhaji Mairiga, assured the new ES of the support and cooperation of staff in achieving the mandate of the board. The new Executive Secretary/CEO, Federal Government Staff Housing Loans Board (FGSHLB), Alhaji Ibrahim Mairiga, assumed office in Abuja on Monday. He was appointed last Friday by President Muhammadu Buhari, to take over from Dr. Hannatu Fika. The new ES held a brief meeting with the heads of Departments, Divisions and Units to familiarize himself with the Management staff. Spokesman of the board, Mr. Akinwale Adegbola, quoted Mairiga as promising to run an all-inclusive administration and fully digitalize the operations and work processes of the board. According to him, this will simplify application, review, profiling and release of funds to loan applicants and beneficiaries, as well as facilitate the ease of doing business, in line with the ideals of President Buhari led administration. The news ES also pledged to bring his wealth of experience in different fields across the MDAs to reposition the board for efficient service delivery. The Deputy Director, Hajia Salamatu Ladi-Ahmed who had superintended over the affairs of the Board before the appointment of Alhaji Mairiga, assured the new ES of the support and cooperation of staff in achieving the mandate of the board.