TAJBank has won the award for Best Islamic Bank for Marketing & Growth Strategy at the Global Islamic Finance Awards (GIFA) 2020. Receiving the award on behalf of the bank, the Managing Director, Norfadelizan Abdul Rahman noted “This goes well beyond the recognizance in earnings and returns on equity, but also in ensuring that we sustain world class corporate governance standards and continually raise the bar in exceptional customer service delivery. TAJBank opens branch in Sokoto TAJBANK eyes higher returns, holds 1st AGM “As such, awards like this clearly reflect our sustained commitment towards this vision. and motivates us to continuously deploy innovative financial products that wholly empower our customers and serve their needs.” TAJBank, widely regarded by industry watchers as a trailblazer, has maintained  consistent growth since its inception into the market due to its various innovations in digital and financial services. Recently, the bank commissioned its 4th office in Sokoto State and also established Nigeria’s first ethical mall, TAJMall, which focuses on providing products and services to meet the evolving needs of its customers. The Global Islamic Finance Awards celebrates leading financial institutions within the global banking sector who are setting new industry standards and driving innovation in financial services within their various countries. TAJBank has won the award for Best Islamic Bank for Marketing & Growth Strategy at the Global Islamic Finance Awards (GIFA) 2020. Receiving the award on behalf of the bank, the Managing Director, Norfadelizan Abdul Rahman noted “This goes well beyond the recognizance in earnings and returns on equity, but also in ensuring that we sustain world class corporate governance standards and continually raise the bar in exceptional customer service delivery. TAJBank opens branch in Sokoto TAJBANK eyes higher returns, holds 1st AGM “As such, awards like this clearly reflect our sustained commitment towards this vision. and motivates us to continuously deploy innovative financial products that wholly empower our customers and serve their needs.” TAJBank, widely regarded by industry watchers as a trailblazer, has maintained  consistent growth since its inception into the market due to its various innovations in digital and financial services. Recently, the bank commissioned its 4th office in Sokoto State and also established Nigeria’s first ethical mall, TAJMall, which focuses on providing products and services to meet the evolving needs of its customers. The Global Islamic Finance Awards celebrates leading financial institutions within the global banking sector who are setting new industry standards and driving innovation in financial services within their various countries.