Civil societies championing the campaign to reform Nigeria’s response to the drug problem in the country have said punitive measures put in place to discourage drug use have failed. Dr Adeolu Adebiyi, Technical Director, Integrated Care and Support Programme for People Living with HIV in Nigeria, said the government’s approach to the growing drug problem has not produced the desired outcome. Adebiyi, who was speaking at a workshop organised by YouthRise Nigeria with ‘Evidence-Based Balanced Drug Control in Nigeria’ as theme, said focus should be shifted to harm reduction rather than emphasising drug supply and drug demand control. “Punitive measures have failed and harm reduction in the area of making treatment available to those who have been affected by the drug problem should be the policy focus now. He stressed that the workshop was important because “As a country, we are beginning to advance the dialogue around drug use as a public health challenge and linking it to sustainable development. So we need a better approach to be able to get the right outcome.” Also speaking, Co-Director, YouthRise Nigeria, Mr Oluseyi Kehinde, said the drug use problem is a growing concern hence the need to engage all stakeholders, executives of the area council, religious leaders and the media. “The idea is to build their capacity on drug use and also sensitise them on the effective response to the drug problem. “Gone are the days when public policy was based on armchair knowledge. When it comes to drug use, there is a wide knowledge gap and since these are stakeholders who have the responsibility of policy formulation and evaluation, it is important for them to understand key issues in the world’s approach to the drug problem,” he said. He, however, acknowledged that the government was committed to addressing the drug problem, but expressed dissatisfaction that the bulk of the response is still tied to drug supply reduction. Civil societies championing the campaign to reform Nigeria’s response to the drug problem in the country have said punitive measures put in place to discourage drug use have failed. Dr Adeolu Adebiyi, Technical Director, Integrated Care and Support Programme for People Living with HIV in Nigeria, said the government’s approach to the growing drug problem has not produced the desired outcome. Adebiyi, who was speaking at a workshop organised by YouthRise Nigeria with ‘Evidence-Based Balanced Drug Control in Nigeria’ as theme, said focus should be shifted to harm reduction rather than emphasising drug supply and drug demand control. “Punitive measures have failed and harm reduction in the area of making treatment available to those who have been affected by the drug problem should be the policy focus now. He stressed that the workshop was important because “As a country, we are beginning to advance the dialogue around drug use as a public health challenge and linking it to sustainable development. So we need a better approach to be able to get the right outcome.” Also speaking, Co-Director, YouthRise Nigeria, Mr Oluseyi Kehinde, said the drug use problem is a growing concern hence the need to engage all stakeholders, executives of the area council, religious leaders and the media. “The idea is to build their capacity on drug use and also sensitise them on the effective response to the drug problem. “Gone are the days when public policy was based on armchair knowledge. When it comes to drug use, there is a wide knowledge gap and since these are stakeholders who have the responsibility of policy formulation and evaluation, it is important for them to understand key issues in the world’s approach to the drug problem,” he said. He, however, acknowledged that the government was committed to addressing the drug problem, but expressed dissatisfaction that the bulk of the response is still tied to drug supply reduction.