An FCT High Court sitting in Jabi, Abuja, on Thursday, ordered notice of service on FCT Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello and the Department of Development Control of the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC) over planned demolition of some houses in Aleita, Abuja. The presiding judge, Justice Danlami D. Sanchi, gave the order following a suit filed before the court by Gbagyi natives of Aleita through their counsel, Barrister Aliyu D. Zubairu, over planned demolition of their ancestral homes by the officials of the development control of the FCDA. Demolition: Jabi residents allege extortion Anxiety in Kaduna as old Panteka market awaits demolition Zubairu, while speaking with newsmen outside the court premises, said the officials of the development control had, on 31st August, 2020, marked some of the Gbagyi natives houses for demolition ‘‘without any prior notice’’, a situation which he said prompted the affected people to file a suit seeking the court to restrict the minister and the development control from demolishing houses of the natives in the area. The judge, therefore, adjourned the matter to 30th September, 2020, and ordered the affected natives to put the minister and development control on notice. An FCT High Court sitting in Jabi, Abuja, on Thursday, ordered notice of service on FCT Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello and the Department of Development Control of the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC) over planned demolition of some houses in Aleita, Abuja. The presiding judge, Justice Danlami D. Sanchi, gave the order following a suit filed before the court by Gbagyi natives of Aleita through their counsel, Barrister Aliyu D. Zubairu, over planned demolition of their ancestral homes by the officials of the development control of the FCDA. Demolition: Jabi residents allege extortion Anxiety in Kaduna as old Panteka market awaits demolition Zubairu, while speaking with newsmen outside the court premises, said the officials of the development control had, on 31st August, 2020, marked some of the Gbagyi natives houses for demolition ‘‘without any prior notice’’, a situation which he said prompted the affected people to file a suit seeking the court to restrict the minister and the development control from demolishing houses of the natives in the area. The judge, therefore, adjourned the matter to 30th September, 2020, and ordered the affected natives to put the minister and development control on notice.