The Gomo of Kuje, Alhaji Haruna Jibrin Tanko, has called on the government to establish a military base in Kwaku community of his chiefdom to help curtail cases of kidnappings and armed banditry in the area. Alhaji Haruna, speaking with our reporter via telephone interview on Monday, said the military base would also address cases of cattle rustling and other crimes in the area. He said there were over 50 communities under his chiefdom, which he said, have large forests. He added that communities such as Kabbi -Mangoro, Kabbi – Kasa Tude and Kwaku have witnessed incessant attacks from armed bandits and kidnappers. He, however, said the news making the rounds that Boko Haram has established a camp in a forest in his chiefdom was not true. “Actually I read the news that Boko Haram has established a camp in a forest under my chiefdom, which I discovered it is not true after enquiries but I want to suggest that government should establish a military base in Kwaku, in order to tackle cases of kidnappings and armed banditry,” he said. Meanwhile, the Chairman of Gwagwalada Area Council, Alhaji Adamu Mustapha, disclosed that arrangement was in place to organize a security summit in Zuba,  to deliberate on cases of kidnappings and armed banditry in the area. Alhaji Adamu, who also spoke with our reporter via telephone interview, said the security summit would involve stakeholders, various security agents, traditional rulers, village/district heads as well as youth and pressure groups in the area. The chairman said the security summit became necessary following the recent kidnap incident in Tungan-Maje community. The Gomo of Kuje, Alhaji Haruna Jibrin Tanko, has called on the government to establish a military base in Kwaku community of his chiefdom to help curtail cases of kidnappings and armed banditry in the area. Alhaji Haruna, speaking with our reporter via telephone interview on Monday, said the military base would also address cases of cattle rustling and other crimes in the area. He said there were over 50 communities under his chiefdom, which he said, have large forests. He added that communities such as Kabbi -Mangoro, Kabbi – Kasa Tude and Kwaku have witnessed incessant attacks from armed bandits and kidnappers. He, however, said the news making the rounds that Boko Haram has established a camp in a forest in his chiefdom was not true. “Actually I read the news that Boko Haram has established a camp in a forest under my chiefdom, which I discovered it is not true after enquiries but I want to suggest that government should establish a military base in Kwaku, in order to tackle cases of kidnappings and armed banditry,” he said. Meanwhile, the Chairman of Gwagwalada Area Council, Alhaji Adamu Mustapha, disclosed that arrangement was in place to organize a security summit in Zuba,  to deliberate on cases of kidnappings and armed banditry in the area. Alhaji Adamu, who also spoke with our reporter via telephone interview, said the security summit would involve stakeholders, various security agents, traditional rulers, village/district heads as well as youth and pressure groups in the area. The chairman said the security summit became necessary following the recent kidnap incident in Tungan-Maje community.