Sujimoto is offering investors who buy into LeonardoBySujimoto apartments a return of 400 per cent in two years. Located at Bourdillon Road and Eko Atlantic, LeonardoBySujimoto, is described as the most expensive three bedroom apartment, selling for $2 million to $4.5m. CEO of Sujimoto, Sijibomi Ogundele, said: “What we have designed is three times better and two times cheaper! By the time we launch in October, the three bedroom you are buying today for $650,000.00 will be sold at $1 million when we launch in October; and $3.5 million upon completion giving you over 400% Return on Investment (ROI) in two years.” He said the Leonardo will be the first option for high net worth individuals and expatriates looking for luxury, security, and comfort. “We have signed a rental agreement with top multinationals and blue chip companies that will rent the Leonardo immediately when it is completed. The LeonardoBySujimoto two bedroom will guarantee $50,000 rental ROI per annum, three bedroom will give $70,000, while the four bedroom is guaranteed to give $100,000 per annum. “When you own a Leonardo, you can either live in it whenever you are in Lagos or we can help you put it on our Sujimoto Residences, an AirBNB Styled luxury shortlet service that guarantees N30 million – N120 million per annum at 70% occupancy. He said for an initial deposit of $150,000 (30%), one can become a proud owner of the LeonardoBySujimoto- a waterfront high-rise building that features premium fittings and facilities, award-winning ZahaHadid bathrooms, among other features.  Sujimoto is offering investors who buy into LeonardoBySujimoto apartments a return of 400 per cent in two years. Located at Bourdillon Road and Eko Atlantic, LeonardoBySujimoto, is described as the most expensive three bedroom apartment, selling for $2 million to $4.5m. CEO of Sujimoto, Sijibomi Ogundele, said: “What we have designed is three times better and two times cheaper! By the time we launch in October, the three bedroom you are buying today for $650,000.00 will be sold at $1 million when we launch in October; and $3.5 million upon completion giving you over 400% Return on Investment (ROI) in two years.” He said the Leonardo will be the first option for high net worth individuals and expatriates looking for luxury, security, and comfort. “We have signed a rental agreement with top multinationals and blue chip companies that will rent the Leonardo immediately when it is completed. The LeonardoBySujimoto two bedroom will guarantee $50,000 rental ROI per annum, three bedroom will give $70,000, while the four bedroom is guaranteed to give $100,000 per annum. “When you own a Leonardo, you can either live in it whenever you are in Lagos or we can help you put it on our Sujimoto Residences, an AirBNB Styled luxury shortlet service that guarantees N30 million – N120 million per annum at 70% occupancy. He said for an initial deposit of $150,000 (30%), one can become a proud owner of the LeonardoBySujimoto- a waterfront high-rise building that features premium fittings and facilities, award-winning ZahaHadid bathrooms, among other features. 