President Muhmmadu Buhari on Wednesday swore in the four newly appointed Permanent Secretaries at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The swearing-in ceremony was briefly held before the start of the virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting. Those sworn in today at the Council Chamber of the State House are James Sule (Kaduna State); Ismaila Abubakar (Kebbi State); Ibiene Patricia Roberts (Rivers State);  and Shehu Aliyu Shinkafi from Zamfara State. The four new Permanent Secretaries, including three men and a lady, are completing the list of 16 persons appointed in June this year, among whom 12 persons had been sworn-in more than a month ago. Meanwhile, President Buhari is currently chairing the FEC meeting being attended physically by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN); Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha; Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari; the National Security Adviser (NSA), retired Major General Babagana Monguno; and four Ministers. The ministers are the Attorney-General of Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami; Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; and the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clement Agba. Other members of cabinet are attending, from their various offices, through video conference. President Muhmmadu Buhari on Wednesday swore in the four newly appointed Permanent Secretaries at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The swearing-in ceremony was briefly held before the start of the virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting. Those sworn in today at the Council Chamber of the State House are James Sule (Kaduna State); Ismaila Abubakar (Kebbi State); Ibiene Patricia Roberts (Rivers State);  and Shehu Aliyu Shinkafi from Zamfara State. The four new Permanent Secretaries, including three men and a lady, are completing the list of 16 persons appointed in June this year, among whom 12 persons had been sworn-in more than a month ago. Meanwhile, President Buhari is currently chairing the FEC meeting being attended physically by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN); Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha; Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari; the National Security Adviser (NSA), retired Major General Babagana Monguno; and four Ministers. The ministers are the Attorney-General of Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami; Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; and the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clement Agba. Other members of cabinet are attending, from their various offices, through video conference.