Franchise holders of the distribution rights of Fan Milk products have rejected the move by Fan Milk PLC to take over all the distribution outlets of the product in Abuja. A letter signed by the IFM-North of Fan Milk Plc, which was addressed to the franchise holders, indicated that all outlets within the FCT would henceforth be taken over. The letter dated August 12, 2020, read, “Be informed that the distribution section of Fan Milk products in Abuja has been taken over by a private organisation, called Trade Depot.” However, the franchise holders wrote a complaint letter dated August 12, 2020, saying the takeover would amount to stifling competition and creating a monopoly. They also said it amounted to eliminating its clients, their staff and other vendors from the Abuja market. One of the franchisees, Yusuf Mohammed, said they are exploring all possible means of preventing the takeover of their business outlets in Abuja. He said about 11 franchisees, with cumulative investments of over N50 million, would be affected by the new policy. Mohammed who has been in the business for over 15 years, said the 11 franchisees have 280 customers and 77 workers in Abuja and all these people would be put out of business. He called on the Federal Government to intervene and save the jobs and investments of the franchisees. Franchise holders of the distribution rights of Fan Milk products have rejected the move by Fan Milk PLC to take over all the distribution outlets of the product in Abuja. A letter signed by the IFM-North of Fan Milk Plc, which was addressed to the franchise holders, indicated that all outlets within the FCT would henceforth be taken over. The letter dated August 12, 2020, read, “Be informed that the distribution section of Fan Milk products in Abuja has been taken over by a private organisation, called Trade Depot.” However, the franchise holders wrote a complaint letter dated August 12, 2020, saying the takeover would amount to stifling competition and creating a monopoly. They also said it amounted to eliminating its clients, their staff and other vendors from the Abuja market. One of the franchisees, Yusuf Mohammed, said they are exploring all possible means of preventing the takeover of their business outlets in Abuja. He said about 11 franchisees, with cumulative investments of over N50 million, would be affected by the new policy. Mohammed who has been in the business for over 15 years, said the 11 franchisees have 280 customers and 77 workers in Abuja and all these people would be put out of business. He called on the Federal Government to intervene and save the jobs and investments of the franchisees.