Senate President Ahmad Lawan, Tuesday, assured of speedy passage of electoral reform and constitutional amendment bills. Lawan’s statement came 24 hours after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) announced that it had commenced the process that would lead the country to automated voting or electronic voting system. The INEC National Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said the commission had invited manufacturers of electronic voting machines around the world to demonstrate how the machines work, preparatory to full migration from manual to electronic voting in the country. Lawan stated this in his opening remarks at the resumption of Senate plenary. He said the amendment was to enhance free, fair, transparent and credible elections in Nigeria, assuring that the Red Chamber will ensure speedy work on the constitution review exercise. He said: “Our 1999 Constitution as amended needs to be reviewed from time to time to improve the quality of governance and ensure stability in our polity. “The Senate Committee on the Review of the Constitution has already invited memoranda from citizens and organisations alike. “The Senate will ensure speedy work on the review exercise. “Also, the Electoral Reform Amendment Bills will be treated with despatch. “We must ensure that we make amendments that will enhance free, fair, transparent and credible elections in our country.” Senate President Ahmad Lawan, Tuesday, assured of speedy passage of electoral reform and constitutional amendment bills. Lawan’s statement came 24 hours after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) announced that it had commenced the process that would lead the country to automated voting or electronic voting system. The INEC National Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said the commission had invited manufacturers of electronic voting machines around the world to demonstrate how the machines work, preparatory to full migration from manual to electronic voting in the country. Lawan stated this in his opening remarks at the resumption of Senate plenary. He said the amendment was to enhance free, fair, transparent and credible elections in Nigeria, assuring that the Red Chamber will ensure speedy work on the constitution review exercise. He said: “Our 1999 Constitution as amended needs to be reviewed from time to time to improve the quality of governance and ensure stability in our polity. “The Senate Committee on the Review of the Constitution has already invited memoranda from citizens and organisations alike. “The Senate will ensure speedy work on the review exercise. “Also, the Electoral Reform Amendment Bills will be treated with despatch. “We must ensure that we make amendments that will enhance free, fair, transparent and credible elections in our country.”