A conductor of a luxurious bus whose identity is yet to be confirmed died while two others sustained injuries in a crash near Abaji, on the Abuja-Lokoja road. A witness said the incident happened around 12:53 am on Monday, at a sharp bend close to Yakwo farms when the luxurious bus rammed into a broken down tanker without registration number. He said the conductor’s body was trapped in wreck of the crash after the bus hit the tanker at the back, while two persons who sustained injuries were rescued and taken to the hospital by men of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC). He said the mangled body of the conductor was later removed and taken to the mortuary. Our reporter gathered that the tanker broke down by the side of the road, after the driver rammed into logs of wood used by suspected armed robbers to barricade the highway. When contacted, the Abaji Unit Commander of the FRSC, ACC Abubakar Shehu Dogondaji, confirmed the accident, which he attributed to the logs of wood used in barricading the highway by suspected armed robbers. He said the corpse of the conductor had been deposited at Abaji general hospital morgue, while the two injured victims were receiving treatment at St. Peter’s Catholic hospital in the area. He said the obstruction caused by the tanker had been cleared by his men.  A conductor of a luxurious bus whose identity is yet to be confirmed died while two others sustained injuries in a crash near Abaji, on the Abuja-Lokoja road. A witness said the incident happened around 12:53 am on Monday, at a sharp bend close to Yakwo farms when the luxurious bus rammed into a broken down tanker without registration number. He said the conductor’s body was trapped in wreck of the crash after the bus hit the tanker at the back, while two persons who sustained injuries were rescued and taken to the hospital by men of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC). He said the mangled body of the conductor was later removed and taken to the mortuary. Our reporter gathered that the tanker broke down by the side of the road, after the driver rammed into logs of wood used by suspected armed robbers to barricade the highway. When contacted, the Abaji Unit Commander of the FRSC, ACC Abubakar Shehu Dogondaji, confirmed the accident, which he attributed to the logs of wood used in barricading the highway by suspected armed robbers. He said the corpse of the conductor had been deposited at Abaji general hospital morgue, while the two injured victims were receiving treatment at St. Peter’s Catholic hospital in the area. He said the obstruction caused by the tanker had been cleared by his men. 