Two men, 38-year-old Friday Omoniyi and Shehu Aliyu, 65, have been arraigned before an Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, chief magistrate court, one for allegedly receiving a stolen car, and the other for allegedly being an accessory to the crime. The police prosecutor, Inspector Oriyomi Akinwale, told the court on Monday that Omoniyi committed the offence on February 4, 2020 at about 1pm in Ado-Ekiti. Akinwale alleged that the defendant “dishonestly” received a stolen Toyota Sienna vehicle registration number APP 03 EP, valued at N600,000 and property of Atiku Malami, from Mustapha Shehu. The prosecutor also alleged that Aliyu, on September 11, 2020 at about 2pm in the Ado Area Commander’s office, Ado-Ekiti, became an accessory to an offence of car theft by voluntarily standing surety for Shehu, “knowing that Shehu had committed an offence by stealing a Toyota Sienna.” The prosecutor added that Aliyu committed the offence with the intention of preventing and frustrating Shehu’s arraignment for the offence. The defendants pleaded not guilty. The chief magistrate, Mrs Adefumike Anoma, granted them bail in the sum of N100,000, with one surety each in like sum, and adjourned the case till October 5, 2020 for hearing. Two men, 38-year-old Friday Omoniyi and Shehu Aliyu, 65, have been arraigned before an Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, chief magistrate court, one for allegedly receiving a stolen car, and the other for allegedly being an accessory to the crime. The police prosecutor, Inspector Oriyomi Akinwale, told the court on Monday that Omoniyi committed the offence on February 4, 2020 at about 1pm in Ado-Ekiti. Akinwale alleged that the defendant “dishonestly” received a stolen Toyota Sienna vehicle registration number APP 03 EP, valued at N600,000 and property of Atiku Malami, from Mustapha Shehu. The prosecutor also alleged that Aliyu, on September 11, 2020 at about 2pm in the Ado Area Commander’s office, Ado-Ekiti, became an accessory to an offence of car theft by voluntarily standing surety for Shehu, “knowing that Shehu had committed an offence by stealing a Toyota Sienna.” The prosecutor added that Aliyu committed the offence with the intention of preventing and frustrating Shehu’s arraignment for the offence. The defendants pleaded not guilty. The chief magistrate, Mrs Adefumike Anoma, granted them bail in the sum of N100,000, with one surety each in like sum, and adjourned the case till October 5, 2020 for hearing.