The Plateau Rescue Front (PRF) has accused Governor Simon Bako Lalong of being nepotistic and unjust in steering the affairs of the state. The group, which claimed to be stakeholders in the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), also alleged that there was no meaningful development in the state since the governor assumed office five years ago. Gunmen kill Plateau couple on bike We’ve secured Plateau to attract investors – Lalong It made the allegations in a letter addressed to the governor dated August 29, 2020 and signed by one Francis Kwarpo. The governor was also accused of neglecting party members in political appointments. But the state Commissioner for Information and Communication, Mr Dan Manjang, dismissed the allegations. He said the governor did not only appoint APC members but also members of opposition parties. “For those saying the governor is nepotistic, they should know that he appointed people who are originally from the state based on merit,” the commissioner said. The Plateau Rescue Front (PRF) has accused Governor Simon Bako Lalong of being nepotistic and unjust in steering the affairs of the state. The group, which claimed to be stakeholders in the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), also alleged that there was no meaningful development in the state since the governor assumed office five years ago. Gunmen kill Plateau couple on bike We’ve secured Plateau to attract investors – Lalong It made the allegations in a letter addressed to the governor dated August 29, 2020 and signed by one Francis Kwarpo. The governor was also accused of neglecting party members in political appointments. But the state Commissioner for Information and Communication, Mr Dan Manjang, dismissed the allegations. He said the governor did not only appoint APC members but also members of opposition parties. “For those saying the governor is nepotistic, they should know that he appointed people who are originally from the state based on merit,” the commissioner said.