The Federal Government’s new policies on alternative energy, total deregulation, liberalisation of the petroleum downstream sector and planned modular refineries will make Nigeria a refining hub for West and Central Africa and a net exporter of refined products, the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) has said. The association, in a statement by its chairman, Mr Tunji Oyebanji, said there must be cheaper and cleaner alternatives to petrol and diesel made available to the public especially as full deregulation of the petroleum downstream sector commences. Oil marketers can bargain to fix petrol price with deregulation – FG Oil prices fall on demand fears as U.S. summer driving season ends “The idea of deepening the use of gas comes at a very auspicious time as we grapple with increasing PMS prices due to the deregulation of the petroleum downstream sector.” The marketers said in total support of the government’s new energy strategy, they organised the Nigerian Compressed Natural Gas Webinar on the 2nd of September, 2020, in collaboration with Oil Trading and Logistics (OTL) Africa Downstream and ARS Conference Services with key stakeholders in the oil and gas sector in attendance. The Federal Government’s new policies on alternative energy, total deregulation, liberalisation of the petroleum downstream sector and planned modular refineries will make Nigeria a refining hub for West and Central Africa and a net exporter of refined products, the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) has said. The association, in a statement by its chairman, Mr Tunji Oyebanji, said there must be cheaper and cleaner alternatives to petrol and diesel made available to the public especially as full deregulation of the petroleum downstream sector commences. Oil marketers can bargain to fix petrol price with deregulation – FG Oil prices fall on demand fears as U.S. summer driving season ends “The idea of deepening the use of gas comes at a very auspicious time as we grapple with increasing PMS prices due to the deregulation of the petroleum downstream sector.” The marketers said in total support of the government’s new energy strategy, they organised the Nigerian Compressed Natural Gas Webinar on the 2nd of September, 2020, in collaboration with Oil Trading and Logistics (OTL) Africa Downstream and ARS Conference Services with key stakeholders in the oil and gas sector in attendance.