Imo State APC chairman, Chief Marcellinus Nlemigbo, has said the people of Okigwe zone will be better off re-electing the ruling party in the October 31 by-election to fill the vacant seat of Imo North senatorial district. The seat became vacant following the death of Senator Ben Uwajumogu. The election pitches APC’s Frank Ibezim against PDP’s Emmanuel Okewulonu. However, ahead of the election, APC is enmeshed in a struggle over who is the right candidate between Ibezim, the winner of the September 2 primary election and former Senator Ifeanyi Araraume. While Nlemigbo, who has the backing of Governor Hope Uzodimma, is backing Ibezim, Araraume is enjoying the backing of Senator Rochas Okorocha, who controls the Dan Nwafor-led faction. Nlemigbo, who spoke to our correspondent in Owerri on Sunday, said the issue of candidature of the party for the election had been settled as it had long submitted the name of Ibezim as its candidate. According to him, the party is expecting a win in the election because as the party in power, the people of Okigwe zone have a lot to lose by voting for the opposition.  Imo State APC chairman, Chief Marcellinus Nlemigbo, has said the people of Okigwe zone will be better off re-electing the ruling party in the October 31 by-election to fill the vacant seat of Imo North senatorial district. The seat became vacant following the death of Senator Ben Uwajumogu. The election pitches APC’s Frank Ibezim against PDP’s Emmanuel Okewulonu. However, ahead of the election, APC is enmeshed in a struggle over who is the right candidate between Ibezim, the winner of the September 2 primary election and former Senator Ifeanyi Araraume. While Nlemigbo, who has the backing of Governor Hope Uzodimma, is backing Ibezim, Araraume is enjoying the backing of Senator Rochas Okorocha, who controls the Dan Nwafor-led faction. Nlemigbo, who spoke to our correspondent in Owerri on Sunday, said the issue of candidature of the party for the election had been settled as it had long submitted the name of Ibezim as its candidate. According to him, the party is expecting a win in the election because as the party in power, the people of Okigwe zone have a lot to lose by voting for the opposition. 