The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State on Tuesday insisted that it would win the forthcoming Lagos East Senatorial and Kosofe II by-elections with a landslide despite the challenge of the opposition PDP. Chieftains of the party said this when their candidate for the by-election, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, met with party stakeholders, community leaders and residents in Somolu as part of the electioneering campaign. Abiru, a former managing director of Polaris Bank, promised to carry on with the legacies of his predecessors in the senatorial district. He said: “I will carry on the legacies of those who had represented the senatorial district in the past by offering quality representation. “My father, Justice Abiru, represented this district at the Senate, then Senator Anthony Adefuye, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, Senator Olorunnibe Mamora, Senator Gbenga Ashafa, and Senator Bayo Osinowo. May God bless his soul. “These great men did very well; I can’t afford to do less. I will do my best to the service of the people if elected,” he said. Daily Trust reports that the seat became vacant following the death of Osinowo on June 15 leaving the APC and opposition PDP spoiling for war. PDP had vowed to deploy the “Edo strategy” to win the by-election. But the APC Vice-Chairman for Lagos East, Asipa Kaola Olusanya, boasted that APC would win the election landslide with the massive turnout of party members. He however advised the party members to double up their efforts to deliver more votes for the party.  The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State on Tuesday insisted that it would win the forthcoming Lagos East Senatorial and Kosofe II by-elections with a landslide despite the challenge of the opposition PDP. Chieftains of the party said this when their candidate for the by-election, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, met with party stakeholders, community leaders and residents in Somolu as part of the electioneering campaign. Abiru, a former managing director of Polaris Bank, promised to carry on with the legacies of his predecessors in the senatorial district. He said: “I will carry on the legacies of those who had represented the senatorial district in the past by offering quality representation. “My father, Justice Abiru, represented this district at the Senate, then Senator Anthony Adefuye, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, Senator Olorunnibe Mamora, Senator Gbenga Ashafa, and Senator Bayo Osinowo. May God bless his soul. “These great men did very well; I can’t afford to do less. I will do my best to the service of the people if elected,” he said. Daily Trust reports that the seat became vacant following the death of Osinowo on June 15 leaving the APC and opposition PDP spoiling for war. PDP had vowed to deploy the “Edo strategy” to win the by-election. But the APC Vice-Chairman for Lagos East, Asipa Kaola Olusanya, boasted that APC would win the election landslide with the massive turnout of party members. He however advised the party members to double up their efforts to deliver more votes for the party. 