A divorce-seeking housewife, Fisayo Akingbuwa on Monday told a customary court in Ibadan, Oyo State, that her husband, Abiodun Akingbuwa, is an “unrepentant gambler and nightcrawler” who has allegedly not been taking care of his children. Fisayo, in her divorce petition, expressed her displeasure that her husband did not celebrate the christening ceremonies of the four children their marriage produced “but usually bought biscuit for neighbours and family members. She also noted that her husband was always bringing a loaf of bread home as food for the family “without anything to complement it.” The petitioner added, “Instead of my husband to care for the children, he preferred using the money to play Baba Ijebu (gamble). Whenever I checked his pocket, I would see receipts of Baba Ijebu. He is always using all his money to gamble. He has never had any money since I knew him. He refused to pay the school fees of his children. My husband is not a good man. “He usually returns home late. Whenever he is coming back home, he returns with a loaf of bread. And if I ask him about what we would use to eat it, he would say we should use only water. When I insisted I would celebrate the christening of my last baby, the only thing he used to support me was ice block to cool the drinks I bought.” Akingbuwa denied the allegations Fisayo levelled against him, saying she was not telling the truth behind her decision for seeking divorce. He alleged the petitioner was having affairs with different men and had been impregnated by another man in the neighborhood. The president of the court, Chief Ademola Odunade, dissolved the marriage “in the interest of peace and order” and awarded custody of the 16-year-old eldest son in the marriage to the respondent and the three others to the petitioner. A divorce-seeking housewife, Fisayo Akingbuwa on Monday told a customary court in Ibadan, Oyo State, that her husband, Abiodun Akingbuwa, is an “unrepentant gambler and nightcrawler” who has allegedly not been taking care of his children. Fisayo, in her divorce petition, expressed her displeasure that her husband did not celebrate the christening ceremonies of the four children their marriage produced “but usually bought biscuit for neighbours and family members. She also noted that her husband was always bringing a loaf of bread home as food for the family “without anything to complement it.” The petitioner added, “Instead of my husband to care for the children, he preferred using the money to play Baba Ijebu (gamble). Whenever I checked his pocket, I would see receipts of Baba Ijebu. He is always using all his money to gamble. He has never had any money since I knew him. He refused to pay the school fees of his children. My husband is not a good man. “He usually returns home late. Whenever he is coming back home, he returns with a loaf of bread. And if I ask him about what we would use to eat it, he would say we should use only water. When I insisted I would celebrate the christening of my last baby, the only thing he used to support me was ice block to cool the drinks I bought.” Akingbuwa denied the allegations Fisayo levelled against him, saying she was not telling the truth behind her decision for seeking divorce. He alleged the petitioner was having affairs with different men and had been impregnated by another man in the neighborhood. The president of the court, Chief Ademola Odunade, dissolved the marriage “in the interest of peace and order” and awarded custody of the 16-year-old eldest son in the marriage to the respondent and the three others to the petitioner.