The Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) is neck-deep in crisis as stakeholders have sacked the party’s national chairman, Falalu Bello, and announced Prof. Sule Bello as the interim national chairman. The PRP stakeholders accused Falalu of abusing the party’s constitution and ideology, promoting division, strife and destruction of the rank and file of the party among others. But Falalu dispelled the allegations, adding that his purported sack was illegal. In a communique dated September 26, 2020, signed by Prof. Bello, some state chairmen and other leaders of the party at the end of the PRP Stakeholders meeting at the weekend in Abuja, the stakeholders asked the PRP interim chairman to organise a national convention where a new substantive national chairman of the party would emerge. The communique reads in part, “The meeting unanimously passed a vote of no confidence on Falalu Bello administration. “The meeting unanimously nominated and endorsed Prof. Sule Bello as the Interim Chairman to coordinate the affairs of the PRP. “The meeting also agreed that Prof. Sule Bello in consultation with the BoT Chairman, should form a National Working Committee that will conduct the PRP National Convention in compliance with court judgemnt that reinstated PRP as a political party.” The stakeholders said the meeting was convened at the instance of PRP National Leader and Board of Trustees (BoT) Chairman,  Balarabe Musa, a former governor of Kaduna state. But reacting in a telephone interview, Falalu Bello described the action as illegal, saying,”A group of members have no power to sack a National Executive Committee member except the National Convention.” The Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) is neck-deep in crisis as stakeholders have sacked the party’s national chairman, Falalu Bello, and announced Prof. Sule Bello as the interim national chairman. The PRP stakeholders accused Falalu of abusing the party’s constitution and ideology, promoting division, strife and destruction of the rank and file of the party among others. But Falalu dispelled the allegations, adding that his purported sack was illegal. In a communique dated September 26, 2020, signed by Prof. Bello, some state chairmen and other leaders of the party at the end of the PRP Stakeholders meeting at the weekend in Abuja, the stakeholders asked the PRP interim chairman to organise a national convention where a new substantive national chairman of the party would emerge. The communique reads in part, “The meeting unanimously passed a vote of no confidence on Falalu Bello administration. “The meeting unanimously nominated and endorsed Prof. Sule Bello as the Interim Chairman to coordinate the affairs of the PRP. “The meeting also agreed that Prof. Sule Bello in consultation with the BoT Chairman, should form a National Working Committee that will conduct the PRP National Convention in compliance with court judgemnt that reinstated PRP as a political party.” The stakeholders said the meeting was convened at the instance of PRP National Leader and Board of Trustees (BoT) Chairman,  Balarabe Musa, a former governor of Kaduna state. But reacting in a telephone interview, Falalu Bello described the action as illegal, saying,”A group of members have no power to sack a National Executive Committee member except the National Convention.”