Three vehicles and six shops have been burnt after a petrol tanker exploded near Azman filling station in Zuba, along Abuja-Lokoja road. A witness, Chidozie Amarachi, said the petrol tanker, loaded with Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), was coming from Madalla axis when it had brake failure near Dan Kogi filling station in Zuba. Tanker explosion destroys houses, cars in Niger Tanker fire kills 207, injures 221 in 3 years He said the tanker lost control and hit another vehicle in front of it before crashing by the roadside and spilling its content, which immediately burst into flames enveloping two commercial buses and a Volkswagen Golf car. Our reporter learnt that a Golf car driver sustained a fracture in his leg as he attempted to avoid being caught up in the flames from the burning tanker. According to the witness, men of the Fire Service who arrived at the scene intensified efforts to put out the fire but the PMS, which had already spilled up to a Suya spot, added to the inferno and burnt down six shops. “Some petty traders by the roadside also had to abandon their wares which were consumed by the fire,” he said. The Zuba commander of the Fire Service, Ibrahim Shadow, confirmed the incident and expressed concern over speeding by tankers along the axis. He said his men made efforts to put out the fire. He added that the huge flames from the burning tanker caused a gridlock on the expressway. Three vehicles and six shops have been burnt after a petrol tanker exploded near Azman filling station in Zuba, along Abuja-Lokoja road. A witness, Chidozie Amarachi, said the petrol tanker, loaded with Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), was coming from Madalla axis when it had brake failure near Dan Kogi filling station in Zuba. Tanker explosion destroys houses, cars in Niger Tanker fire kills 207, injures 221 in 3 years He said the tanker lost control and hit another vehicle in front of it before crashing by the roadside and spilling its content, which immediately burst into flames enveloping two commercial buses and a Volkswagen Golf car. Our reporter learnt that a Golf car driver sustained a fracture in his leg as he attempted to avoid being caught up in the flames from the burning tanker. According to the witness, men of the Fire Service who arrived at the scene intensified efforts to put out the fire but the PMS, which had already spilled up to a Suya spot, added to the inferno and burnt down six shops. “Some petty traders by the roadside also had to abandon their wares which were consumed by the fire,” he said. The Zuba commander of the Fire Service, Ibrahim Shadow, confirmed the incident and expressed concern over speeding by tankers along the axis. He said his men made efforts to put out the fire. He added that the huge flames from the burning tanker caused a gridlock on the expressway.