The Lagos State Police Command has confirmed the death of a young man, Kayode Oloruntoba, who was said to have been shot by some young men with whom he had had a fight at a sharwama and snacks cafe in the Alagbado area of the state. Oloruntoba, who was described as a regular caller at Avid Shawarma Spot at No. 3, Werewere Street, Alagbado, was understood to have been shot last Thursday night during a minor disagreement with the men and died later after his friend, Okikiola Kazeem, had taken him to a private hospital in Ogun State. The police said they had arrested six persons for their alleged involvement in the incident. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, in a statement he issued on the killing late Sunday night, said, “The incident occurred when the deceased had an altercation at the spot with another customer, who is now at large. “After the shooting, Kayode’s friend and witness, one Okikiola Kazeem, who had earlier called him (Kayode) to join him at the shawarma spot, refused to immediately report the incident to the police, but rather took the deceased to a herbalist in Ogun State, where they extracted the pellets. “He later took Kayode to his brother’s house in the Ipaja area, Lagos State, where he gave up the ghost.” Superintendent Adejobi listed the six persons arrested in connection with the killing as Chimezie Amaechi, the owner of the shawarma spot; Okikiola Kazeem, the friend of the deceased; Olayinka Oyedokun, Femi Victor, Taiwo Morokola and Omole Wasiu. The matter has been taken to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) for investigation, the police spokesperson said. The Lagos State Police Command has confirmed the death of a young man, Kayode Oloruntoba, who was said to have been shot by some young men with whom he had had a fight at a sharwama and snacks cafe in the Alagbado area of the state. Oloruntoba, who was described as a regular caller at Avid Shawarma Spot at No. 3, Werewere Street, Alagbado, was understood to have been shot last Thursday night during a minor disagreement with the men and died later after his friend, Okikiola Kazeem, had taken him to a private hospital in Ogun State. The police said they had arrested six persons for their alleged involvement in the incident. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, in a statement he issued on the killing late Sunday night, said, “The incident occurred when the deceased had an altercation at the spot with another customer, who is now at large. “After the shooting, Kayode’s friend and witness, one Okikiola Kazeem, who had earlier called him (Kayode) to join him at the shawarma spot, refused to immediately report the incident to the police, but rather took the deceased to a herbalist in Ogun State, where they extracted the pellets. “He later took Kayode to his brother’s house in the Ipaja area, Lagos State, where he gave up the ghost.” Superintendent Adejobi listed the six persons arrested in connection with the killing as Chimezie Amaechi, the owner of the shawarma spot; Okikiola Kazeem, the friend of the deceased; Olayinka Oyedokun, Femi Victor, Taiwo Morokola and Omole Wasiu. The matter has been taken to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) for investigation, the police spokesperson said.