The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) has launched a new syllabus for its professional examination which captures subjects on emerging technologies that are disrupting the accounting profession. The syllabus was developed in line with the institute’s resolve to continue to produce future-ready chartered accountants with skills and competences desired by the market with effect from March, 2021. ICAN President, Dame Onome Joy Adewuyi, who unveiled the new syllabus, said the revised syllabus incorporated subjects on BlockChain Technology, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning and Internet of Things, among others. She said new trends in the Nigerian environment such as the Finance Act 2019 which introduced new developments in the country’s tax system and the new Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA 2020) also presented added impetus for the review. She further said the current syllabus was reviewed in 2018, but that the rapidly changing environment necessitated a revisit of the status quo from the five-year policy of the syllabus review to a more regular one that proactively responded to the demands of the market.  The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) has launched a new syllabus for its professional examination which captures subjects on emerging technologies that are disrupting the accounting profession. The syllabus was developed in line with the institute’s resolve to continue to produce future-ready chartered accountants with skills and competences desired by the market with effect from March, 2021. ICAN President, Dame Onome Joy Adewuyi, who unveiled the new syllabus, said the revised syllabus incorporated subjects on BlockChain Technology, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning and Internet of Things, among others. She said new trends in the Nigerian environment such as the Finance Act 2019 which introduced new developments in the country’s tax system and the new Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA 2020) also presented added impetus for the review. She further said the current syllabus was reviewed in 2018, but that the rapidly changing environment necessitated a revisit of the status quo from the five-year policy of the syllabus review to a more regular one that proactively responded to the demands of the market. 