Citizens of Benue State are now expected to make inputs and follow every year’s budget to conclusion following the current measures by the government to ensure accountability and sustainability. The Commissioner of Finance and  Economic Planning, David Olofu, said this when a team of Independent Verification Agents (IVAs) assessed the state’s performance on disbursements for 2019 appropriation. He said the measure of ensuring citizens have inputs in the budget has come to stay. “We expect that with accountability, the common man would be able to see for himself where the money is going to; that is important in the budget. He should also be able to follow to determine whether or not the budget is achieved. “The system being put in place makes provision for citizens’ inputs to the budget just as it makes it possible for citizens to fast track the budget to conclusion.” Olofu, therefore, urged Benue indigenes and civil societies to access the relevant website to access all financial information about the state. IVAs team lead, Joseph Ademola, said the report of the assessment indicated a better performance by the state this year when compared to last year, adding that their findings would be presented to their superiors in Abuja.  Citizens of Benue State are now expected to make inputs and follow every year’s budget to conclusion following the current measures by the government to ensure accountability and sustainability. The Commissioner of Finance and  Economic Planning, David Olofu, said this when a team of Independent Verification Agents (IVAs) assessed the state’s performance on disbursements for 2019 appropriation. He said the measure of ensuring citizens have inputs in the budget has come to stay. “We expect that with accountability, the common man would be able to see for himself where the money is going to; that is important in the budget. He should also be able to follow to determine whether or not the budget is achieved. “The system being put in place makes provision for citizens’ inputs to the budget just as it makes it possible for citizens to fast track the budget to conclusion.” Olofu, therefore, urged Benue indigenes and civil societies to access the relevant website to access all financial information about the state. IVAs team lead, Joseph Ademola, said the report of the assessment indicated a better performance by the state this year when compared to last year, adding that their findings would be presented to their superiors in Abuja. 