A Wuse Zone Six Chief Magistrate Court, Abuja, on Wednesday ordered a 35-year-old driver, Ahmed Danladi, to sweep the court premises for two days for stealing. The police charged Danladi, of No 44 Oran Street, Wuse Zone One, Abuja with a count of theft. Adoke: Court cautions EFCC to limit requests for adjournment We prefer India hemp to cigarette to avoid health problem, suspected armed robbers tell court The chief magistrate, Omolola Akindele, ordered that the convict reports to the court for two days to sweep the premises after he pleaded guilty to the offence, for which he was sentenced without the option of fine. Earlier the prosecution counsel, ASP Peter Ejike, told the court that the complainant, Samuel Joseph of the same address, reported the matter at Wuse Zone 3 Police Divisional Headquarters on Sept. 1. Ejike further said the convict, working as a driver to Joseph’s boss, on the same date stole a cleaning machine, whose value was not known and attempted to pass it to a scavenger over the fence. The prosecutor said during police investigation, the convict confessed to committing the offence. He said the offence contravened Section 289 of the Penal Code Law. (NAN) A Wuse Zone Six Chief Magistrate Court, Abuja, on Wednesday ordered a 35-year-old driver, Ahmed Danladi, to sweep the court premises for two days for stealing. The police charged Danladi, of No 44 Oran Street, Wuse Zone One, Abuja with a count of theft. Adoke: Court cautions EFCC to limit requests for adjournment We prefer India hemp to cigarette to avoid health problem, suspected armed robbers tell court The chief magistrate, Omolola Akindele, ordered that the convict reports to the court for two days to sweep the premises after he pleaded guilty to the offence, for which he was sentenced without the option of fine. Earlier the prosecution counsel, ASP Peter Ejike, told the court that the complainant, Samuel Joseph of the same address, reported the matter at Wuse Zone 3 Police Divisional Headquarters on Sept. 1. Ejike further said the convict, working as a driver to Joseph’s boss, on the same date stole a cleaning machine, whose value was not known and attempted to pass it to a scavenger over the fence. The prosecutor said during police investigation, the convict confessed to committing the offence. He said the offence contravened Section 289 of the Penal Code Law. (NAN)