The Lagos State Government said it is committed to enhancing Public-Private Partnership (PPP) through its Ehingbeti Summit. The Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr. Sam Egube, said this at a briefing to announce plans for the summit. Egube said the summit last held in 2014 took serious suggestions from the private sector including the blue and red rail line that is about to start operations, the Lekki toll gate, and others. This year’s summit will hold November 10 to 12 virtually and would also enable foreign direct investors to participate. “What the Lagos State Government is trying to do is stimulate contribution from the private sector, get them interested in the governance of the state and lead the way in terms of the outcomes.” Co-chair of Ehingbeti and Chairman of Citibank Nigeria, Mr. Olayemi Cardoso, said, “With the challenges ahead and Lagos being the economic nerve centre of the country, there is a large responsibility to ensure that they protect the citizens of the state; and this is something that can’t happen unless it is planned for.”  The Lagos State Government said it is committed to enhancing Public-Private Partnership (PPP) through its Ehingbeti Summit. The Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr. Sam Egube, said this at a briefing to announce plans for the summit. Egube said the summit last held in 2014 took serious suggestions from the private sector including the blue and red rail line that is about to start operations, the Lekki toll gate, and others. This year’s summit will hold November 10 to 12 virtually and would also enable foreign direct investors to participate. “What the Lagos State Government is trying to do is stimulate contribution from the private sector, get them interested in the governance of the state and lead the way in terms of the outcomes.” Co-chair of Ehingbeti and Chairman of Citibank Nigeria, Mr. Olayemi Cardoso, said, “With the challenges ahead and Lagos being the economic nerve centre of the country, there is a large responsibility to ensure that they protect the citizens of the state; and this is something that can’t happen unless it is planned for.” 