The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has denied ‘Northernization’ claims following its recent appointments into the management cadre of the Service. A statement by the spokesman, Deputy Comptroller Joseph Attah, showed that the management team comprises 11 officers from the north and nine from the south. It said all the zones of the country are equally represented at the management cadre of NCS. It said recently, two Deputy Comptroller Generals (DCGs), from North-east and North-west, retired. Two Assistant Comptroller Generals (ACGs) retired and one was dismissed; one of them was from the North-east and two from the North-west. Two senior ACGs then filled the DCG vacancies from North-east and North-west, leaving the ACG vacancies to five from the two zones, it noted. A breakdown of the list shows that the North Central has four officers, the North-east has three, and the North-west has four. The South-west has four, South-south has two and the South-east has three management officers at Customs. “NCS has and abides strictly by the rules governing recruitment, promotion and appointment into the management cadre. We therefore urge Nigerians to ignore this mischievous twist.” Jibo, during a handing over ceremony commended the outgoing acting Controller, Deputy Comptroller Chedi Dalha Wada, for a successful tenure. The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has denied ‘Northernization’ claims following its recent appointments into the management cadre of the Service. A statement by the spokesman, Deputy Comptroller Joseph Attah, showed that the management team comprises 11 officers from the north and nine from the south. It said all the zones of the country are equally represented at the management cadre of NCS. It said recently, two Deputy Comptroller Generals (DCGs), from North-east and North-west, retired. Two Assistant Comptroller Generals (ACGs) retired and one was dismissed; one of them was from the North-east and two from the North-west. Two senior ACGs then filled the DCG vacancies from North-east and North-west, leaving the ACG vacancies to five from the two zones, it noted. A breakdown of the list shows that the North Central has four officers, the North-east has three, and the North-west has four. The South-west has four, South-south has two and the South-east has three management officers at Customs. “NCS has and abides strictly by the rules governing recruitment, promotion and appointment into the management cadre. We therefore urge Nigerians to ignore this mischievous twist.” Jibo, during a handing over ceremony commended the outgoing acting Controller, Deputy Comptroller Chedi Dalha Wada, for a successful tenure.