The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) on Monday gave importers a 30-day notice to clear over time goods in 164 containers abandoned at the ports or forfeit them to the Federal Government In a notice published by the Service, it said the containers-load of goods were domiciled at the Ports and Terminal Multipurpose Limited (PTML) in Lagos. “Accordingly, importers and agents of the overtime goods are given a 30 days grace period from the date of publication to process and clear their goods or forfeit the same to the Federal Government of Nigeria,” NCS said. Customs said it gave the notice on July 10, 2020 and had published it on Monday “for the information of the public.” It has also gazetted the information on the overtime containers. The Service said it was acting in line with Section 97 (8) of the Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA). Reacting, President of Africa Association of Professional Freight Forwarders and Logistics of Nigeria (APFFLON), Otunba Frank Ogunojemite, asked Customs to enquire why some containers are not cleared, especially as some importers abandon their cargoes when frustrated by the clearing process. “Some of these containers may have issues with other agencies and as a result of which they are abandoned. At times it might be as a result of multiple charges. Government agencies who also have overlapping functions with Customs might decide to hold on to these containers. “Some of the owners may be staying abroad and may not know about this development. At times it might not be because of money,” he said. The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) on Monday gave importers a 30-day notice to clear over time goods in 164 containers abandoned at the ports or forfeit them to the Federal Government In a notice published by the Service, it said the containers-load of goods were domiciled at the Ports and Terminal Multipurpose Limited (PTML) in Lagos. “Accordingly, importers and agents of the overtime goods are given a 30 days grace period from the date of publication to process and clear their goods or forfeit the same to the Federal Government of Nigeria,” NCS said. Customs said it gave the notice on July 10, 2020 and had published it on Monday “for the information of the public.” It has also gazetted the information on the overtime containers. The Service said it was acting in line with Section 97 (8) of the Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA). Reacting, President of Africa Association of Professional Freight Forwarders and Logistics of Nigeria (APFFLON), Otunba Frank Ogunojemite, asked Customs to enquire why some containers are not cleared, especially as some importers abandon their cargoes when frustrated by the clearing process. “Some of these containers may have issues with other agencies and as a result of which they are abandoned. At times it might be as a result of multiple charges. Government agencies who also have overlapping functions with Customs might decide to hold on to these containers. “Some of the owners may be staying abroad and may not know about this development. At times it might not be because of money,” he said.