The Council of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) has recertified and renewed the accreditation of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) Academy as a training service provider for various professionals in the banking industry. A statement by the Director, Communication & Public Affairs, NDIC, Sunday Oluyemi, said the renewal which is for the next three years, was effective from June, 2020. According to the Head of the five-man CIBN Accreditation Team, Mr. Saubana Ogunpola, the academy has had exemplary performance since its initial accreditation in 2016. He also said the academy satisfied the stringent conditions for the recertification, noting that there would be periodic monitoring to ensure that quality standards are being adhered to. NDIC’s Managing Director/Chief Executive, Mr. Umaru Ibrahim, described the recertification as another milestone in the NDIC efforts to consolidate the position of the academy as a centre of academic excellence in Nigeria and Africa. He said the academy has trained 13,368 participants across the NDIC’s workforce. It had also trained 135 participants from agencies like the EFCC, Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), Assets Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON), with 19 employees from sister deposit insurance agencies in Africa, among others.  The Council of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) has recertified and renewed the accreditation of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) Academy as a training service provider for various professionals in the banking industry. A statement by the Director, Communication & Public Affairs, NDIC, Sunday Oluyemi, said the renewal which is for the next three years, was effective from June, 2020. According to the Head of the five-man CIBN Accreditation Team, Mr. Saubana Ogunpola, the academy has had exemplary performance since its initial accreditation in 2016. He also said the academy satisfied the stringent conditions for the recertification, noting that there would be periodic monitoring to ensure that quality standards are being adhered to. NDIC’s Managing Director/Chief Executive, Mr. Umaru Ibrahim, described the recertification as another milestone in the NDIC efforts to consolidate the position of the academy as a centre of academic excellence in Nigeria and Africa. He said the academy has trained 13,368 participants across the NDIC’s workforce. It had also trained 135 participants from agencies like the EFCC, Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), Assets Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON), with 19 employees from sister deposit insurance agencies in Africa, among others. 