The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has expressed its commitment to redefining and improving investors’ overall experience in the Nigerian capital market, and ensuring that it remains modern, convenient and secure. This was highlighted at the inaugural edition of the Retail Investors’ Webinar hosted by the Exchange in collaboration with the Nigerian International Securities Limited (NISL). The event, with the theme, “Capital Market Investing in a Digital Age”, was supported by the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) and the Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria Speaking during the webinar, the Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar N. Onyema said: “Investor’s participation is central to the growth and sustainable development of any economy. “The Exchange is, therefore, committed to facilitating conversations that will expound on the retail investment opportunities available in the capital market and the channels through which they can be accessed. The Managing Director, Nigerian International Securities Limited (NISL), Mr. Laolu Martins said: “NSE has consistently pioneered far-reaching innovations within the Nigerian capital market, positively driving market integrity, boosting both investor confidence and market participation.”  The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has expressed its commitment to redefining and improving investors’ overall experience in the Nigerian capital market, and ensuring that it remains modern, convenient and secure. This was highlighted at the inaugural edition of the Retail Investors’ Webinar hosted by the Exchange in collaboration with the Nigerian International Securities Limited (NISL). The event, with the theme, “Capital Market Investing in a Digital Age”, was supported by the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) and the Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria Speaking during the webinar, the Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar N. Onyema said: “Investor’s participation is central to the growth and sustainable development of any economy. “The Exchange is, therefore, committed to facilitating conversations that will expound on the retail investment opportunities available in the capital market and the channels through which they can be accessed. The Managing Director, Nigerian International Securities Limited (NISL), Mr. Laolu Martins said: “NSE has consistently pioneered far-reaching innovations within the Nigerian capital market, positively driving market integrity, boosting both investor confidence and market participation.” 