The federal government has a plan to construct a hydropower plant in Erin Ijesa community in Osun State. This was disclosed by the implementation committee from the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology led by the acting Director in the ministry, Mr. Issa Buba, who visited the site of the project. Buba said that the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology was able to identify some sites that could be developed in the South West and three locations were approved which include two dams and Erin Ijesa waterfall community. He said the ministry had contacted the state government since 2016 when the feasibility study was carried out but the process was stalled due to some factors, but assured that the process is now back on course. Buba said the ministry was tasked to do research on small hydropower and to partner with some state governments and other stakeholders to develop Hydropower plants that can generate electricity, using local raw materials as part of its mandate for socioeconomic development. The Odofin of Erin-Ijesa land, High Chief Samuel Adebowale, appealed to the state government to provide access roads to complement the provision of electricity. Chief of Staff to the Governor, Dr Charles Diji Akinola, assured the people of the community that the administration of Governor Gboyega Oyetola would support the project delivery.  The federal government has a plan to construct a hydropower plant in Erin Ijesa community in Osun State. This was disclosed by the implementation committee from the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology led by the acting Director in the ministry, Mr. Issa Buba, who visited the site of the project. Buba said that the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology was able to identify some sites that could be developed in the South West and three locations were approved which include two dams and Erin Ijesa waterfall community. He said the ministry had contacted the state government since 2016 when the feasibility study was carried out but the process was stalled due to some factors, but assured that the process is now back on course. Buba said the ministry was tasked to do research on small hydropower and to partner with some state governments and other stakeholders to develop Hydropower plants that can generate electricity, using local raw materials as part of its mandate for socioeconomic development. The Odofin of Erin-Ijesa land, High Chief Samuel Adebowale, appealed to the state government to provide access roads to complement the provision of electricity. Chief of Staff to the Governor, Dr Charles Diji Akinola, assured the people of the community that the administration of Governor Gboyega Oyetola would support the project delivery. 