A yet-to-be-identified middle-aged bus driver died after a trailer rammed into the bus he was driving in Abaji town, on Abuja-Lokoja road. Our reporter learnt that another person sustained serious injuries and was taken to the hospital in the area. A witness said the accident happened on Saturday around 6:05 am when a Daf truck with registration number KSF 82 XA coming from Gwagwalada axis hit the Volkswagen Sharon bus with registration number NAS 53 AA from behind. He said the bus driver lost control and hit another Daf truck with registration number KTN 490 YZ and the driver was trapped by his steering. “It was raining when one of the trailers coming on speed hit the bus at the back, which forced the bus driver to lose control and hit another trailer in his front,” he said. Our reporter who arrived at the scene shortly after the incident saw the rescue team of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) struggling to remove the trapped body of the bus into their patrol van. When contacted, the Abaji unit commander of FRSC, ACC Abubakar Shehu Dogondaji, confirmed the accident, which he attributed to speed limit violation and loss of control. He said the corpse of the bus driver had been deposited at Abaji general hospital morgue, while the injured victim was taken to the same hospital for treatment. He said the drivers of the two trucks were handed over to the police in the area.  A yet-to-be-identified middle-aged bus driver died after a trailer rammed into the bus he was driving in Abaji town, on Abuja-Lokoja road. Our reporter learnt that another person sustained serious injuries and was taken to the hospital in the area. A witness said the accident happened on Saturday around 6:05 am when a Daf truck with registration number KSF 82 XA coming from Gwagwalada axis hit the Volkswagen Sharon bus with registration number NAS 53 AA from behind. He said the bus driver lost control and hit another Daf truck with registration number KTN 490 YZ and the driver was trapped by his steering. “It was raining when one of the trailers coming on speed hit the bus at the back, which forced the bus driver to lose control and hit another trailer in his front,” he said. Our reporter who arrived at the scene shortly after the incident saw the rescue team of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) struggling to remove the trapped body of the bus into their patrol van. When contacted, the Abaji unit commander of FRSC, ACC Abubakar Shehu Dogondaji, confirmed the accident, which he attributed to speed limit violation and loss of control. He said the corpse of the bus driver had been deposited at Abaji general hospital morgue, while the injured victim was taken to the same hospital for treatment. He said the drivers of the two trucks were handed over to the police in the area. 