The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s candidate for the October 31 Lagos East Senatorial by-election, Babatunde Gbadamosi, on Tuesday, said Lagosians are fed up with the ruling APC. He said this is one of the factors that gave him confidence that he will win the forthcoming election. Speaking with newsmen in Lagos, Gbadamosi, popularly known as BOG, said he is in the race to “provide better representation.” According to him, other senators who represented the district did not serve the best interest of Lagos State. He said there had been many laws that have “deleterious” effects on the state which the lawmakers representing the state neglected. Declaring that ‘‘enough is enough for the ruling APC’’, Gbadamosi said the coming election is not about any political party but about the people, adding, “I am the best candidate on offer right now.” He said if President Muhammadu Buhari continued to allow free and fair elections as experienced in the last Edo governorship election, PDP would win by a landslide, adding, “Lagosians are fed up with APC.” The PDP candidate also promised to work towards amending the electricity law to allow for mini and micro grids which would enable the states and local governments to build their own grids and reduce the over-reliance on “the wobbly national grid.” “Lagos is like a nation-state and we should be able to generate our own electricity,” he added. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s candidate for the October 31 Lagos East Senatorial by-election, Babatunde Gbadamosi, on Tuesday, said Lagosians are fed up with the ruling APC. He said this is one of the factors that gave him confidence that he will win the forthcoming election. Speaking with newsmen in Lagos, Gbadamosi, popularly known as BOG, said he is in the race to “provide better representation.” According to him, other senators who represented the district did not serve the best interest of Lagos State. He said there had been many laws that have “deleterious” effects on the state which the lawmakers representing the state neglected. Declaring that ‘‘enough is enough for the ruling APC’’, Gbadamosi said the coming election is not about any political party but about the people, adding, “I am the best candidate on offer right now.” He said if President Muhammadu Buhari continued to allow free and fair elections as experienced in the last Edo governorship election, PDP would win by a landslide, adding, “Lagosians are fed up with APC.” The PDP candidate also promised to work towards amending the electricity law to allow for mini and micro grids which would enable the states and local governments to build their own grids and reduce the over-reliance on “the wobbly national grid.” “Lagos is like a nation-state and we should be able to generate our own electricity,” he added.