Ahead of the September 19, governorship election in Edo State, the state chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), in conjunction with the Light of Peace for Africa Foundation, has called for fasting and prayers on September 16 for peaceful election in the state. Briefing journalists, on Wednesday in Benin, the association’s Chairman, Bishop Oriname Oyonnude Kure, said the fasting and prayer were necessary for peaceful election in the state. Edo, Ondo polls: INEC clears air on use of Z-pad Edo guber poll: Be security conscious, NYSC tells corps members Kure stressed the need for all people in the state to come together in one voice to seek the face of God to avoid bloodshed and violence before, during and after the election. “CAN hereby calls on churches, pastors, Christians, God-fearing and all good people of Edo State for a one-day prayer and fasting for peaceful election in Edo State,” he said. He noted that the September 19 governorship election was crucial in determining the destiny of the state, “bearing in mind the future of the state and that of our children as well as the sustainability of the developmental strides in the state.” Meanwhile, butchers in the state on Wednesday shut down abattoirs, meat markets and shops in solidarity with the re-election of Governor Godwin Obaseki. Ahead of the September 19, governorship election in Edo State, the state chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), in conjunction with the Light of Peace for Africa Foundation, has called for fasting and prayers on September 16 for peaceful election in the state. Briefing journalists, on Wednesday in Benin, the association’s Chairman, Bishop Oriname Oyonnude Kure, said the fasting and prayer were necessary for peaceful election in the state. Edo, Ondo polls: INEC clears air on use of Z-pad Edo guber poll: Be security conscious, NYSC tells corps members Kure stressed the need for all people in the state to come together in one voice to seek the face of God to avoid bloodshed and violence before, during and after the election. “CAN hereby calls on churches, pastors, Christians, God-fearing and all good people of Edo State for a one-day prayer and fasting for peaceful election in Edo State,” he said. He noted that the September 19 governorship election was crucial in determining the destiny of the state, “bearing in mind the future of the state and that of our children as well as the sustainability of the developmental strides in the state.” Meanwhile, butchers in the state on Wednesday shut down abattoirs, meat markets and shops in solidarity with the re-election of Governor Godwin Obaseki.