Muslim youths under the aegis of National Council of Muslim Youth Organisations (NACOMYO) and the Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria (MSSN) on Tuesday urged the federal government to ignore those calling for the secession of Yoruba people from Nigeria. The groups, at a jointly organised press conference in Ibadan, the Southwest political headquarters, described the agitation of a section in the Southwest for secession as individualism and not the voice of Yoruba people. Speaking on behalf of the groups, the Amir of MSSN B-zone, Qaasim Odedeji said: “Muslim Youths of Yoruba extraction condemn in stronger terms any agitation for secession or creation of Oduduwa Republic.” The groups appealed to all Nigerians to put all hands on deck towards ensuring the development of one Nigeria. “The secessionist groups have not only chosen a name for their proposed republic, they have also designed its currency which has been paraded on social media. “In order to gain global attention for their agitation, Yoruba World Congress has planned a rally to be held on the 1st day of October, the Nigerian Independence Day.” Muslim youths under the aegis of National Council of Muslim Youth Organisations (NACOMYO) and the Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria (MSSN) on Tuesday urged the federal government to ignore those calling for the secession of Yoruba people from Nigeria. The groups, at a jointly organised press conference in Ibadan, the Southwest political headquarters, described the agitation of a section in the Southwest for secession as individualism and not the voice of Yoruba people. Speaking on behalf of the groups, the Amir of MSSN B-zone, Qaasim Odedeji said: “Muslim Youths of Yoruba extraction condemn in stronger terms any agitation for secession or creation of Oduduwa Republic.” The groups appealed to all Nigerians to put all hands on deck towards ensuring the development of one Nigeria. “The secessionist groups have not only chosen a name for their proposed republic, they have also designed its currency which has been paraded on social media. “In order to gain global attention for their agitation, Yoruba World Congress has planned a rally to be held on the 1st day of October, the Nigerian Independence Day.”