The Zuba Divisional Police Officer (DPO), CSP Yahuza Mohammed, has expressed dismay over the speed with which courts grant bail to criminals in the area. CSP Mohammed spoke during a security meeting with leaders of market traders, butchers association and the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) at the division on Wednesday. Vehicles, shops burnt as tanker explodes in Zuba Tension in Zuba as butchers, Koro natives clash He said the trend was quite disturbing, as it has continued to pose a serious threat to peace and security of residents of Zuba town and environs. “Granting bail to criminals by courts within an hour has continued to pose a serious threat to the society, as they still go out and continue to commit the same crimes and even boast to our men that nobody can jail them,” he said. The DPO reiterated his determination to protect lives and property of residents of the area and solicited the support and cooperation of leaders of the marketers and butchers’ associations to enable him to flush out criminals terrorising people of the area. Speaking on behalf of the market traders union and leaders of the fruits market in the area, Alhaji Umaru expressed happiness with the Zuba DPO for calling a security meeting in the area. He assured him that leaders of market traders, butchers association and NURTW would work with all relevant security agencies to ensure that criminal activities were curtailed in the area. The Zuba Divisional Police Officer (DPO), CSP Yahuza Mohammed, has expressed dismay over the speed with which courts grant bail to criminals in the area. CSP Mohammed spoke during a security meeting with leaders of market traders, butchers association and the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) at the division on Wednesday. Vehicles, shops burnt as tanker explodes in Zuba Tension in Zuba as butchers, Koro natives clash He said the trend was quite disturbing, as it has continued to pose a serious threat to peace and security of residents of Zuba town and environs. “Granting bail to criminals by courts within an hour has continued to pose a serious threat to the society, as they still go out and continue to commit the same crimes and even boast to our men that nobody can jail them,” he said. The DPO reiterated his determination to protect lives and property of residents of the area and solicited the support and cooperation of leaders of the marketers and butchers’ associations to enable him to flush out criminals terrorising people of the area. Speaking on behalf of the market traders union and leaders of the fruits market in the area, Alhaji Umaru expressed happiness with the Zuba DPO for calling a security meeting in the area. He assured him that leaders of market traders, butchers association and NURTW would work with all relevant security agencies to ensure that criminal activities were curtailed in the area.