Following the conclusion of the Saturday’s governorship election in Edo State, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has wound down the election monitoring situation room in Abuja. The INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu expressed appreciation to all those who worked to make the Edo State governorship election a success. While winding down the Situation Room on the Edo Governorship election, Yakubu reminded all that there is no respite yet for all as the attention shifts to Ondo State where the commission will in October 10 conduct another governorship election. “And three weeks after that it will be the series of bye elections in 11 states,” Yakubu said. He also challenged all INEC staff and participants in the conduct of elections in the country to prove that the success in Edo was not a fluke but the standard in the conduct of elections. “Even as the Situation Room operations on the Edo election is now closed the final statement on the election will still be made,” he added. Following the conclusion of the Saturday’s governorship election in Edo State, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has wound down the election monitoring situation room in Abuja. The INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu expressed appreciation to all those who worked to make the Edo State governorship election a success. While winding down the Situation Room on the Edo Governorship election, Yakubu reminded all that there is no respite yet for all as the attention shifts to Ondo State where the commission will in October 10 conduct another governorship election. “And three weeks after that it will be the series of bye elections in 11 states,” Yakubu said. He also challenged all INEC staff and participants in the conduct of elections in the country to prove that the success in Edo was not a fluke but the standard in the conduct of elections. “Even as the Situation Room operations on the Edo election is now closed the final statement on the election will still be made,” he added.