A member of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee (ACENCPC), representing the North East, Prof. Tahir Mamman (SAN), has said it is the prerogative of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) to extend the caretaker committee’s tenure. The APC NEC dissolved the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) in June, this year. In Edo, neither APC nor PDP merits a pint of your blood Former Adamawa governor leaves APC for PDP It also constituted the 13-member ACENCPC, headed by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni, to take charge of the day-to-day running of the party and to, within six months, organise a national convention for new leaders to emerge. But some party stalwarts have said the committee was seeking tenure extension to deliver on its mandate. Mamman, who led a delegation of some APC stakeholders from Adamawa State to the party’s national secretariat in Abuja, on Thursday, in an interview with newsmen, dispelled the claim that the committee was seeking tenure extension. “We are working within our mandate; we are not working for an extension of time. “If those who gave us job should think of extension that would come from them,” he said. He also dispelled claims that there was crisis in Adamawa State chapter of the party. Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress Youth Coalition for Effective Progress (AYCEP) has expressed support for the caretaker committee of the party led by Governor Buni of Yobe State. In a briefing by its national coordinator, Iliyasu Ibrahim Makinta, AYCEP listed the achievements of Buni to include the return of former Speaker Yakubu Dogara to the party and the commitment to ensure the victory of the party in the governorship election in Edo State. A member of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee (ACENCPC), representing the North East, Prof. Tahir Mamman (SAN), has said it is the prerogative of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) to extend the caretaker committee’s tenure. The APC NEC dissolved the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) in June, this year. In Edo, neither APC nor PDP merits a pint of your blood Former Adamawa governor leaves APC for PDP It also constituted the 13-member ACENCPC, headed by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni, to take charge of the day-to-day running of the party and to, within six months, organise a national convention for new leaders to emerge. But some party stalwarts have said the committee was seeking tenure extension to deliver on its mandate. Mamman, who led a delegation of some APC stakeholders from Adamawa State to the party’s national secretariat in Abuja, on Thursday, in an interview with newsmen, dispelled the claim that the committee was seeking tenure extension. “We are working within our mandate; we are not working for an extension of time. “If those who gave us job should think of extension that would come from them,” he said. He also dispelled claims that there was crisis in Adamawa State chapter of the party. Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress Youth Coalition for Effective Progress (AYCEP) has expressed support for the caretaker committee of the party led by Governor Buni of Yobe State. In a briefing by its national coordinator, Iliyasu Ibrahim Makinta, AYCEP listed the achievements of Buni to include the return of former Speaker Yakubu Dogara to the party and the commitment to ensure the victory of the party in the governorship election in Edo State.