A former Deputy Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Alhaji Isiaka Alimi, has accused Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State of worsening the party’s crisis in the state. Alimi, in a statement in Ibadan on Wednesday, said the party was gradually returning to peace after the Abuja Peace meeting. The APC chieftain said Fayemi’s introduction of extraneous consideration at the meeting held at his residence worsened the crisis. Fayemi was commissioned by the national secretariat of the APC to lead the second phase of reconciliation of its aggrieved members in Oyo State. He said the attempt to hand over the APC to the PDP elements by Governor Fayemi would not only fail but signal bad omen for the APC nationwide. He called on the national leadership of the APC to call him to order so that he would no longer destabilise the party. In a swift reaction, however, the Chief Press Secretary to the Ekiti State governor, Yinka Oyebode, said Fayemi was on an assignment on behalf of the National Reconciliation Committee of the APC in charge of Oyo State. Oyebode said his principal never chose the leader for Oyo APC. He said former governor Adebayo Alao-Akala emerged as chairman of the Party’s Advisory Council with other distinguished personalities like the party chairman, Akin Oke, and former deputy governors, Iyiola Oladokun and Alake Adeyemo as members. According to him, the said leaders emerged as automatic members by virtue of being the highest elected officeholders in the party. He said the main responsibility of the advisory committee was to help oversee the activities of the party through registration. He said at no point was any leader chosen at the Ibadan meeting as Governor Fayemi had reported the outcome of the meeting of party stakeholders in Ibadan to the national headquarters of the APC.  A former Deputy Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Alhaji Isiaka Alimi, has accused Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State of worsening the party’s crisis in the state. Alimi, in a statement in Ibadan on Wednesday, said the party was gradually returning to peace after the Abuja Peace meeting. The APC chieftain said Fayemi’s introduction of extraneous consideration at the meeting held at his residence worsened the crisis. Fayemi was commissioned by the national secretariat of the APC to lead the second phase of reconciliation of its aggrieved members in Oyo State. He said the attempt to hand over the APC to the PDP elements by Governor Fayemi would not only fail but signal bad omen for the APC nationwide. He called on the national leadership of the APC to call him to order so that he would no longer destabilise the party. In a swift reaction, however, the Chief Press Secretary to the Ekiti State governor, Yinka Oyebode, said Fayemi was on an assignment on behalf of the National Reconciliation Committee of the APC in charge of Oyo State. Oyebode said his principal never chose the leader for Oyo APC. He said former governor Adebayo Alao-Akala emerged as chairman of the Party’s Advisory Council with other distinguished personalities like the party chairman, Akin Oke, and former deputy governors, Iyiola Oladokun and Alake Adeyemo as members. According to him, the said leaders emerged as automatic members by virtue of being the highest elected officeholders in the party. He said the main responsibility of the advisory committee was to help oversee the activities of the party through registration. He said at no point was any leader chosen at the Ibadan meeting as Governor Fayemi had reported the outcome of the meeting of party stakeholders in Ibadan to the national headquarters of the APC. 