Operatives of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested eight suspected members of a dreaded cult group, Black Axe (Aiye), for alleged violent acts while they were mourning one of their colleagues who died recently. A statement the Command’s spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, issued on Sunday said the suspects were arrested on September 24, 2020 following a report lodged at the Ogijo police station that the suspects had shot a 16-year-old boy, Onome Iduru, in the stomach during the procession. Oyeyemi stated the cultists also dispossessed Iduru of his phone and went ahead to unleash terror on the Ogijo community. The police spokesman said that following receipt of the report, the Divisional Police Officer, Ogijo, Chief Superintendent Muhammed Suleiman Baba, led policemen to the scene where they arrested the suspects, whom they identified as Olatunji Opeyemi, 26; Ayuba Oduola, 25; Abiodun  Sobowale, 28; Sunday Sobowale, 25; Adelowo Olalekan, 32; Kareem Lanre, 21; Emmanuel Adebisi, 21; and Tobiloba Wasiu, 20. “A banner designed with the group’s insignia to announce the death of their member was recovered from them, while the injured victim was taken to a hospital,” Oyeyemi said. He added that the Commissioner of Police, Edward Awolowo Ajogun, had ordered the transfer of the suspects to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation.  Operatives of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested eight suspected members of a dreaded cult group, Black Axe (Aiye), for alleged violent acts while they were mourning one of their colleagues who died recently. A statement the Command’s spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, issued on Sunday said the suspects were arrested on September 24, 2020 following a report lodged at the Ogijo police station that the suspects had shot a 16-year-old boy, Onome Iduru, in the stomach during the procession. Oyeyemi stated the cultists also dispossessed Iduru of his phone and went ahead to unleash terror on the Ogijo community. The police spokesman said that following receipt of the report, the Divisional Police Officer, Ogijo, Chief Superintendent Muhammed Suleiman Baba, led policemen to the scene where they arrested the suspects, whom they identified as Olatunji Opeyemi, 26; Ayuba Oduola, 25; Abiodun  Sobowale, 28; Sunday Sobowale, 25; Adelowo Olalekan, 32; Kareem Lanre, 21; Emmanuel Adebisi, 21; and Tobiloba Wasiu, 20. “A banner designed with the group’s insignia to announce the death of their member was recovered from them, while the injured victim was taken to a hospital,” Oyeyemi said. He added that the Commissioner of Police, Edward Awolowo Ajogun, had ordered the transfer of the suspects to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation. 