Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State has sought the assistance of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) to complete the state-owned three billion dollars deep seaport in Agge. Diri who made the plea during a courtesy call on the Director-General of NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, stated that some construction firms are already jostling for the project. Governor Diri said the seaport project would also provide job opportunities for many unemployed Nigerian youths. He said the state government was looking at a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement to drive the economy. The governor however wanted NIMASA to assist in providing security as that was a challenge for the state in the maritime sector. “We have issues of kidnapping, sea robbery and pirate attacks around Bayelsa waters. These are Maritime crimes. Please extend your region Maritime Domain Awareness facilities to the coastal state of Bayelsa. “We are also appealing to you to consider Bayelsa youths in your training programme. Bayelsa State is in the process of establishing a Maritime academy to also complement the state government training programme.” The DG of NIMASA, Jamoh, said the agency identified all shipwrecks on territorial waters and was working to clear them. “I urge you to also think of having a shipwreck recycling plants in Bayelsa. This would create employment and boost the economy of the state. I say this because by the time we are ready to commence removal, we will need a place to keep the wrecks and a recycling plant would serve in this regard.” Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State has sought the assistance of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) to complete the state-owned three billion dollars deep seaport in Agge. Diri who made the plea during a courtesy call on the Director-General of NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, stated that some construction firms are already jostling for the project. Governor Diri said the seaport project would also provide job opportunities for many unemployed Nigerian youths. He said the state government was looking at a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement to drive the economy. The governor however wanted NIMASA to assist in providing security as that was a challenge for the state in the maritime sector. “We have issues of kidnapping, sea robbery and pirate attacks around Bayelsa waters. These are Maritime crimes. Please extend your region Maritime Domain Awareness facilities to the coastal state of Bayelsa. “We are also appealing to you to consider Bayelsa youths in your training programme. Bayelsa State is in the process of establishing a Maritime academy to also complement the state government training programme.” The DG of NIMASA, Jamoh, said the agency identified all shipwrecks on territorial waters and was working to clear them. “I urge you to also think of having a shipwreck recycling plants in Bayelsa. This would create employment and boost the economy of the state. I say this because by the time we are ready to commence removal, we will need a place to keep the wrecks and a recycling plant would serve in this regard.”