Jaiz Bank Plc and the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) have signed a Hajj Savings Scheme that would make it easier for Muslims in the country to perform the annual Hajj pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia. Chairman of Jaiz Bank Alhaji Umaru Abdul Mutallab and Managing Director Hassan Usman signed the agreement on behalf of the bank while Chairman/Chief Executive of NAHCON Alhaji Zikrullah Kunle Hassan signed for the commission. With this scheme, intending pilgrims can now save for hajj over time and specify when they intend to go for the Hajj. A dedicated portal is now open for intending pilgrims to open accounts and start saving until the period they are ready to perform the hajj exercise without hassle. The bank MD at the agreement signing ceremony, said the scheme was aimed at making Hajj more accessible to “our Muslim Ummah.” In his remarks, Abdul Mutallab said signing the agreement was a significant milestone in hajj operations in Nigeria as the implementation of the scheme would positively impact every stakeholder. Chairman of NAHCON Hassan said the scheme is an innovation designed to fast-tract Hajj exercise.  Jaiz Bank Plc and the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) have signed a Hajj Savings Scheme that would make it easier for Muslims in the country to perform the annual Hajj pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia. Chairman of Jaiz Bank Alhaji Umaru Abdul Mutallab and Managing Director Hassan Usman signed the agreement on behalf of the bank while Chairman/Chief Executive of NAHCON Alhaji Zikrullah Kunle Hassan signed for the commission. With this scheme, intending pilgrims can now save for hajj over time and specify when they intend to go for the Hajj. A dedicated portal is now open for intending pilgrims to open accounts and start saving until the period they are ready to perform the hajj exercise without hassle. The bank MD at the agreement signing ceremony, said the scheme was aimed at making Hajj more accessible to “our Muslim Ummah.” In his remarks, Abdul Mutallab said signing the agreement was a significant milestone in hajj operations in Nigeria as the implementation of the scheme would positively impact every stakeholder. Chairman of NAHCON Hassan said the scheme is an innovation designed to fast-tract Hajj exercise. 