The Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA) has unveiled an Anti-Corruption and Transparency Monitoring Unit (ACTU) to promote open administration of the agency. Daily Trust reports that the Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman, recently inaugurated a committee to restructure the Federal Ministry of Power and to promote oversight of the power sector agencies including NEMSA. The minister said that would increase transparency and help him deliver on the holistic reforms he was coordinating for the power sector. Speaking at the inauguration of the unit on Thursday, the Managing Director of NEMSA, Engr. Peter Ewesor, said it was crucial to promote openness in the agency to deliver more on its mandate. The NEMSA head said the unit would help to boost the technical enforcement function of the agency in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI). He called for concerted efforts to stamp out corruption saying, “Corruption is a cankerworm that erodes the economic fabric of a nation. Corruption is a destroyer of societies and economies worldwide.” Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, in his remarks cautioned the NEMSA anti-graft unit against forming a parallel management as that would distort the objectives. “Do not use your unit to witch-hunt anyone. You must not use it to victimise anybody and do not form a parallel management to challenge the NEMSA management,” said Prof. Owasanoye who was represented by an official of ICPC, Mr. Ifeanyi Obiaro.  The Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA) has unveiled an Anti-Corruption and Transparency Monitoring Unit (ACTU) to promote open administration of the agency. Daily Trust reports that the Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman, recently inaugurated a committee to restructure the Federal Ministry of Power and to promote oversight of the power sector agencies including NEMSA. The minister said that would increase transparency and help him deliver on the holistic reforms he was coordinating for the power sector. Speaking at the inauguration of the unit on Thursday, the Managing Director of NEMSA, Engr. Peter Ewesor, said it was crucial to promote openness in the agency to deliver more on its mandate. The NEMSA head said the unit would help to boost the technical enforcement function of the agency in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI). He called for concerted efforts to stamp out corruption saying, “Corruption is a cankerworm that erodes the economic fabric of a nation. Corruption is a destroyer of societies and economies worldwide.” Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, in his remarks cautioned the NEMSA anti-graft unit against forming a parallel management as that would distort the objectives. “Do not use your unit to witch-hunt anyone. You must not use it to victimise anybody and do not form a parallel management to challenge the NEMSA management,” said Prof. Owasanoye who was represented by an official of ICPC, Mr. Ifeanyi Obiaro. 