A former governor of Zamfara State, Senator Abdulaziz Yari on Sunday said his faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state is ready for dialogue with other factions to put an end to the crisis rocking the party. Yari, who said this during a meeting with a member of the House of Representatives, representing Ogo Oluwa/Surulere Federal Constituency in Oyo State, Segun Dokun Odebunmi, expressed optimism that the internal rancour in the party will soon be a thing of the past. He said though APC is one family, it is expected of the people to ventilate their grievances over certain policies and decisions of their party leadership. Earlier, Odebunmi had said the meeting was necessary to chart a way out of the crisis in the party to ensure that Oyo and Zamfara states returned to the APC in future elections. Odebunmi said: “All leaders of the party are members of the reconciliation process. We must reconcile ourselves and talk to our followers. This will complement the efforts of the state and the National Reconciliation Committee.” He harped on the need to build trust among the leaders and elders of the party and ensure that camps within the party embraced the reconciliation agenda of the interim national executive of the party. He expressed optimism in the effort of the interim party executive to not only restore peace and stability in the party but also position it to win future elections in the country.  A former governor of Zamfara State, Senator Abdulaziz Yari on Sunday said his faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state is ready for dialogue with other factions to put an end to the crisis rocking the party. Yari, who said this during a meeting with a member of the House of Representatives, representing Ogo Oluwa/Surulere Federal Constituency in Oyo State, Segun Dokun Odebunmi, expressed optimism that the internal rancour in the party will soon be a thing of the past. He said though APC is one family, it is expected of the people to ventilate their grievances over certain policies and decisions of their party leadership. Earlier, Odebunmi had said the meeting was necessary to chart a way out of the crisis in the party to ensure that Oyo and Zamfara states returned to the APC in future elections. Odebunmi said: “All leaders of the party are members of the reconciliation process. We must reconcile ourselves and talk to our followers. This will complement the efforts of the state and the National Reconciliation Committee.” He harped on the need to build trust among the leaders and elders of the party and ensure that camps within the party embraced the reconciliation agenda of the interim national executive of the party. He expressed optimism in the effort of the interim party executive to not only restore peace and stability in the party but also position it to win future elections in the country. 