A crack has been created in Senator Kabir Garba Marafa’s faction of the APC in Zamfara State as some of its members, Tuesday, distanced themselves from the litigation that made a court to sack the executive council members of the party in the state. Chairman of the faction, Alhaji Sirajo Garba, along with others had instituted a legal action that led to the dissolution of the executives of the party from ward to state levels. Your action on Zamfara APC is contempt of court, Marafa camp tells Buni c’ttee Zamfara APC crisis: Buni committee orders expulsion of Marafa faction chair Garba had been penciled down for expulsion following the litigation. However, speaking shortly after the disciplinary committee set up by the Mai Mala Buni caretaker committee to discipline members of the party who violated the party’s constitution, Shafi’i Musa who is the leader of the 147 wards chairmen’s forum said they had no idea who put their names on the list of the plaintiffs. He said no one consulted them when the litigation came up, adding that APC in the state is one indivisible entity and must remain as such. Earlier, the chairman of the disciplinary committee in the state, Alhaji Abdullahi Ja’o Zurmi, said his committee was set up and given the mandate of disciplining those who took the party to court and refused to withdraw the case even when the NEC of the party ordered for the withdrawal. Contacted, Alhaji Surajo Garba said they would not honour the panel’s invitation because the party executives in the state have no legitimacy.” He said the Mai Mala Buni-led caretaker committee was biased on the crisis rocking the party in the state. A crack has been created in Senator Kabir Garba Marafa’s faction of the APC in Zamfara State as some of its members, Tuesday, distanced themselves from the litigation that made a court to sack the executive council members of the party in the state. Chairman of the faction, Alhaji Sirajo Garba, along with others had instituted a legal action that led to the dissolution of the executives of the party from ward to state levels. Your action on Zamfara APC is contempt of court, Marafa camp tells Buni c’ttee Zamfara APC crisis: Buni committee orders expulsion of Marafa faction chair Garba had been penciled down for expulsion following the litigation. However, speaking shortly after the disciplinary committee set up by the Mai Mala Buni caretaker committee to discipline members of the party who violated the party’s constitution, Shafi’i Musa who is the leader of the 147 wards chairmen’s forum said they had no idea who put their names on the list of the plaintiffs. He said no one consulted them when the litigation came up, adding that APC in the state is one indivisible entity and must remain as such. Earlier, the chairman of the disciplinary committee in the state, Alhaji Abdullahi Ja’o Zurmi, said his committee was set up and given the mandate of disciplining those who took the party to court and refused to withdraw the case even when the NEC of the party ordered for the withdrawal. Contacted, Alhaji Surajo Garba said they would not honour the panel’s invitation because the party executives in the state have no legitimacy.” He said the Mai Mala Buni-led caretaker committee was biased on the crisis rocking the party in the state.