The Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) has offered a N500,000 business support grant to Kamilah Farms Limited, a startup firm producing pure Zobo powder. The grant was presented to the founder, Kamilah Ahmed by SMEDAN Director-General, Dikko Umaru Radda, in a ceremony at the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) in Abuja recently. Dikko, who was represented by the agency’s Director, Partnership and Coordination, Idris Gambo, said the young entrepreneur was awarded the grant after her “outstanding” presentation at one of the agency’s business clinics for start-ups. He said the support was to support Kamilah expand her business and create employment for others. “With the support we are giving her, we expect her to get more hands to assist her. That is the essence of entrepreneurship,” Gambo said. He said SMEDAN offers dozens of programmes for SMEs across the country, urging young entrepreneurs to check the agency’s website for details on how to benefit. Responding, Kamilah Ahmed, expressed appreciation to SMEDAN and the ACCI for the support, pledging that the grant would be judiciously utilized.  The Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) has offered a N500,000 business support grant to Kamilah Farms Limited, a startup firm producing pure Zobo powder. The grant was presented to the founder, Kamilah Ahmed by SMEDAN Director-General, Dikko Umaru Radda, in a ceremony at the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) in Abuja recently. Dikko, who was represented by the agency’s Director, Partnership and Coordination, Idris Gambo, said the young entrepreneur was awarded the grant after her “outstanding” presentation at one of the agency’s business clinics for start-ups. He said the support was to support Kamilah expand her business and create employment for others. “With the support we are giving her, we expect her to get more hands to assist her. That is the essence of entrepreneurship,” Gambo said. He said SMEDAN offers dozens of programmes for SMEs across the country, urging young entrepreneurs to check the agency’s website for details on how to benefit. Responding, Kamilah Ahmed, expressed appreciation to SMEDAN and the ACCI for the support, pledging that the grant would be judiciously utilized. 