The Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, has urged Nigerians agitating for state creation to reach out to elected representatives and groups from other geopolitical zones in the country. He said this was to get their supports because they are key in determining if such demands will scale through in the ongoing constitution review exercise. Scrapping Amnesty Programme will truncate peace in N/Delta — Omo-Agege Senate begins constitution review after Sallah – Sen Omo-Agege Omo-Agege, who chairs the Senate Committee on Constitution Review, spoke on Wednesday in Abuja when he played host to members of Urhobo Progress Union (UPU). He noted that amending the constitution to create additional state was a tedious exercise as it requires four-fifth of majority. “But that is not to say it is impossible. “If the demand is genuine and legitimate, there is no reason why it should not succeed. “But you have to do the needful. “You have to reach out to others. You have to lobby as to why this should be the case,” Omo-Agege was quoted as saying in a statement by his spokesman, Yomi Odunuga. The Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, has urged Nigerians agitating for state creation to reach out to elected representatives and groups from other geopolitical zones in the country. He said this was to get their supports because they are key in determining if such demands will scale through in the ongoing constitution review exercise. Scrapping Amnesty Programme will truncate peace in N/Delta — Omo-Agege Senate begins constitution review after Sallah – Sen Omo-Agege Omo-Agege, who chairs the Senate Committee on Constitution Review, spoke on Wednesday in Abuja when he played host to members of Urhobo Progress Union (UPU). He noted that amending the constitution to create additional state was a tedious exercise as it requires four-fifth of majority. “But that is not to say it is impossible. “If the demand is genuine and legitimate, there is no reason why it should not succeed. “But you have to do the needful. “You have to reach out to others. You have to lobby as to why this should be the case,” Omo-Agege was quoted as saying in a statement by his spokesman, Yomi Odunuga.