APC Vice-Chairman in Lagos East, Asipa Kaoli Olusanya, has said the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is “unhappy” with the dwindling votes from Kosofe Federal Constituency comprising Kosofe local government, Agboyi-Ketu and Ikosi-Isheri Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs). Daily Trust reports that APC in the 2011 elections recorded 113,727 votes in Kosofe out of 300,000 registered voters but in 2015 the votes dropped to 53,000. Olusanya disclosed this at the weekend during a meeting with APC stakeholders and community leaders in Kosofe as part of the electioneering campaign for the October 31 by-elections in Lagos East Senatorial District and Kosofe 2 State Constituency. He spoke just as the candidate for the senatorial district, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, appealed to voters to change the narrative in the forthcoming elections by delivering massive votes for the party with a promise to make the people proud. Olusanya, who is the chairman of the APC Campaign Committee for the by-elections, said the 2019 result from Kosofe was the worst with the party recording 44,000 votes from the three councils in the federal constituency out of 423,000 registered voters. He, however, disclosed that the party had decided to constitute committees at the zonal, ward and polling unit levels. The 10-man polling unit committee, he stated, would comprise one agent, four canvassers and five others which include Community Development Association (CDA), resident associations and women.  APC Vice-Chairman in Lagos East, Asipa Kaoli Olusanya, has said the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is “unhappy” with the dwindling votes from Kosofe Federal Constituency comprising Kosofe local government, Agboyi-Ketu and Ikosi-Isheri Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs). Daily Trust reports that APC in the 2011 elections recorded 113,727 votes in Kosofe out of 300,000 registered voters but in 2015 the votes dropped to 53,000. Olusanya disclosed this at the weekend during a meeting with APC stakeholders and community leaders in Kosofe as part of the electioneering campaign for the October 31 by-elections in Lagos East Senatorial District and Kosofe 2 State Constituency. He spoke just as the candidate for the senatorial district, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, appealed to voters to change the narrative in the forthcoming elections by delivering massive votes for the party with a promise to make the people proud. Olusanya, who is the chairman of the APC Campaign Committee for the by-elections, said the 2019 result from Kosofe was the worst with the party recording 44,000 votes from the three councils in the federal constituency out of 423,000 registered voters. He, however, disclosed that the party had decided to constitute committees at the zonal, ward and polling unit levels. The 10-man polling unit committee, he stated, would comprise one agent, four canvassers and five others which include Community Development Association (CDA), resident associations and women. 