The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday inaugurated a 100-man campaign committee for the October 31 by-elections for Lagos East Senatorial District and Kosofe 2 Constituency in the House of Assembly, declaring that there would be no on-the-spot rallies. State chairman of the party, Tunde Balogun, who also handed over the party’s flag to the candidates, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru and Wasiu Obafemi Saheed (Kosofe 2), said the campaign would be COVID-19 protocol compliant. Daily Trust reports that the seats became vacant following the death of Senator Bayo Osinowo and Hon. Tunde Buraimoh who represented the district with INEC fixing October 31 for the two by-elections. According to the APC chairman, the campaign to retain the two seats would be conducted street-to-street, house-to-house, ward-to-ward and from one zone to the other “in a carnival-like movement so that all the people from one street to another, especially the traders, will see you. “We encourage souvenir distribution, outdoor advertisements, billboards, signage, newspaper advertisements and social media platforms,” he said. Balogun said the campaign committee chaired by Asipa Kaoli Olusanya is an all-inclusive one comprising the movers and shakers in Lagos East, adding that the opposition should be prepared for defeat. The chairman however restated that the party remains supreme in the state and that the supremacy of the party is reflected in the campaign committee. “The party is supreme. No group stands any chance of taking undue advantage over the other and that has been the guiding principle in the formation of this campaign team,” he said. Abiru in his acceptance speech said he would be guided by the manifesto of the party when elected as the senator representing the district. Also, the House of Assembly candidate, Saheed, promised not to let the party down, saying it is a great honour for the party to find him worthy among over 10 other aspirants for the position.  The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday inaugurated a 100-man campaign committee for the October 31 by-elections for Lagos East Senatorial District and Kosofe 2 Constituency in the House of Assembly, declaring that there would be no on-the-spot rallies. State chairman of the party, Tunde Balogun, who also handed over the party’s flag to the candidates, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru and Wasiu Obafemi Saheed (Kosofe 2), said the campaign would be COVID-19 protocol compliant. Daily Trust reports that the seats became vacant following the death of Senator Bayo Osinowo and Hon. Tunde Buraimoh who represented the district with INEC fixing October 31 for the two by-elections. According to the APC chairman, the campaign to retain the two seats would be conducted street-to-street, house-to-house, ward-to-ward and from one zone to the other “in a carnival-like movement so that all the people from one street to another, especially the traders, will see you. “We encourage souvenir distribution, outdoor advertisements, billboards, signage, newspaper advertisements and social media platforms,” he said. Balogun said the campaign committee chaired by Asipa Kaoli Olusanya is an all-inclusive one comprising the movers and shakers in Lagos East, adding that the opposition should be prepared for defeat. The chairman however restated that the party remains supreme in the state and that the supremacy of the party is reflected in the campaign committee. “The party is supreme. No group stands any chance of taking undue advantage over the other and that has been the guiding principle in the formation of this campaign team,” he said. Abiru in his acceptance speech said he would be guided by the manifesto of the party when elected as the senator representing the district. Also, the House of Assembly candidate, Saheed, promised not to let the party down, saying it is a great honour for the party to find him worthy among over 10 other aspirants for the position. 