Simba Group, exclusive distributors of Simba TVS motorcycles and tricycles has opened a workshop in Kano. At the ceremony, former Super Eagles Captain Kanu Nwankwo commended Simba TVS for its unparalleled commitment to quality customer service nationwide. Kanu who was the special guest at the inauguration of the TVS workshop singled out the country’s largest operator in the sector for praises in its demonstrated devotion to growing its customers’ businesses over the years. “I commend TVS for their focus on serving their customers nationwide. As Nigeria’s largest selling keke brand, they are trusted by the keke community in every part of the country. It is great that they put their customers interests first by offering the best products and after sales service and I wish them all the best.” After touring the facility, he said: “I am happy to join and congratulate TVS, a sponsor and supporter of the Super Eagles, for the inauguration of their newest service centre and, once again, commend the Company for its commitment to after sales service.” The Business Head of Simba in Nigeria, Mr Mahendra Pratap, said “The opening of our new workshop in Kano is further testimony to our commitment to supporting the nationwide availability of service centres, which is driven by our desire to support our customers across the length and breadth of Nigeria.” TVS also flagged off the road show for northern states at the event. Simba Group, Head of Marketing, Karthik Govindarajan, said the roadshow is to further endear TVS Simba motorcycles and tricycles to Nigerians both in the city and in the hinterland in a bid to serve “our customers in the farthest regions of the country. Simba Group, exclusive distributors of Simba TVS motorcycles and tricycles has opened a workshop in Kano. At the ceremony, former Super Eagles Captain Kanu Nwankwo commended Simba TVS for its unparalleled commitment to quality customer service nationwide. Kanu who was the special guest at the inauguration of the TVS workshop singled out the country’s largest operator in the sector for praises in its demonstrated devotion to growing its customers’ businesses over the years. “I commend TVS for their focus on serving their customers nationwide. As Nigeria’s largest selling keke brand, they are trusted by the keke community in every part of the country. It is great that they put their customers interests first by offering the best products and after sales service and I wish them all the best.” After touring the facility, he said: “I am happy to join and congratulate TVS, a sponsor and supporter of the Super Eagles, for the inauguration of their newest service centre and, once again, commend the Company for its commitment to after sales service.” The Business Head of Simba in Nigeria, Mr Mahendra Pratap, said “The opening of our new workshop in Kano is further testimony to our commitment to supporting the nationwide availability of service centres, which is driven by our desire to support our customers across the length and breadth of Nigeria.” TVS also flagged off the road show for northern states at the event. Simba Group, Head of Marketing, Karthik Govindarajan, said the roadshow is to further endear TVS Simba motorcycles and tricycles to Nigerians both in the city and in the hinterland in a bid to serve “our customers in the farthest regions of the country.