The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for Lagos East senatorial by-election, Tokunbo Abiru on Monday flagged off his campaign in Epe assuring that, if elected, he would offer quality representation at the Senate. The former Managing Director/CEO of Polaris Bank, who addressed party members and residents of Epe Division, said he would serve the people with integrity and passion. The former Managing Director/CEO of Polaris Bank, who addressed party members and residents of Epe Division said he would serve the people with integrity and passion. He said he would make the welfare and empowerment of the people his priority and would work to ensure the completion of on-going projects in the senatorial district. Abiru who emerged the sole candidate of the APC expressed gratitude to the party members for reposing their trust in him, saying he would work very hard to justify the confidence reposed in him. He said: “I promise to give quality representation and serve the people of Lagos East senatorial district. I will make the welfare and empowerment of the people my top priority and work towards ensuring the completion of all ongoing projects in the senatorial district. “As many of you already know, I worked for over 25 years in the banking sector where trust, discipline, service, and innovation matter a lot. I will bring all  of these to bear in the service of the people of the senatorial district.” He promised to work with the relevant people and governments to ensure the completion of Ikorodu-Sagamu  Express road as well as the Ikorodu-Epe road. Abiru stated that he would work with other colleagues at the National Assembly to ensure Lagos was given a special status. “I will be guided by the values of our great party if by the grace of God I am elected “, he added. APC Vice -Chairman, Lagos East Senatorial District, Chief Kaoli Olusanya hailed the choice of the candidate, saying the party is convinced that Abiru can deliver democratic dividends to the people of the area if elected. Olusanya charged the people of Epe to come out en masse on election day to ensure victory for Abiru and the party. Also speaking, Alhaji Shakiru Seriki, a member of Lagos APC Governor’s Advisory Council(GAC) urged the people of Epe to vote massively for Abiru. Seriki urged party members to ensure the 35,000 votes recorded for APC in the 2019 senatorial election in Epe was doubled at the forthcoming election. Wale Raji, a member of the House of Representatives (APC- Epe) said Epe was faced with infrastructural challenges, youth unemployment, and lack of industries. He said Epe had always been for APC and urged the Federal and state government to see to the development of the area. Raji described Abiru as a competent candidate who would make the party and the senatorial district proud if elected. Abiru also visited traditional rulers of Ijebu communities at their monthly meeting at Noforija area of Epe. The monarchs, including the Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotobi and Oloja of Epe, Oba Kabiru Animashaun took turns to pray for the success of Abiru at the polls. Meanwhile, the APC has cleared the air on the emergence of Mr Tokunbo Abiru as its sole candidate for the senatorial bye-election for Lagos East, saying he was not imposed. Spokesman of the party in the state, Hon. Seye Oladejo, said at the weekend that: “There is nothing about his imposition,” adding that the constitution of the party allowed for consensus. The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for Lagos East senatorial by-election, Tokunbo Abiru on Monday flagged off his campaign in Epe assuring that, if elected, he would offer quality representation at the Senate. The former Managing Director/CEO of Polaris Bank, who addressed party members and residents of Epe Division, said he would serve the people with integrity and passion. The former Managing Director/CEO of Polaris Bank, who addressed party members and residents of Epe Division said he would serve the people with integrity and passion. He said he would make the welfare and empowerment of the people his priority and would work to ensure the completion of on-going projects in the senatorial district. Abiru who emerged the sole candidate of the APC expressed gratitude to the party members for reposing their trust in him, saying he would work very hard to justify the confidence reposed in him. He said: “I promise to give quality representation and serve the people of Lagos East senatorial district. I will make the welfare and empowerment of the people my top priority and work towards ensuring the completion of all ongoing projects in the senatorial district. “As many of you already know, I worked for over 25 years in the banking sector where trust, discipline, service, and innovation matter a lot. I will bring all  of these to bear in the service of the people of the senatorial district.” He promised to work with the relevant people and governments to ensure the completion of Ikorodu-Sagamu  Express road as well as the Ikorodu-Epe road. Abiru stated that he would work with other colleagues at the National Assembly to ensure Lagos was given a special status. “I will be guided by the values of our great party if by the grace of God I am elected “, he added. APC Vice -Chairman, Lagos East Senatorial District, Chief Kaoli Olusanya hailed the choice of the candidate, saying the party is convinced that Abiru can deliver democratic dividends to the people of the area if elected. Olusanya charged the people of Epe to come out en masse on election day to ensure victory for Abiru and the party. Also speaking, Alhaji Shakiru Seriki, a member of Lagos APC Governor’s Advisory Council(GAC) urged the people of Epe to vote massively for Abiru. Seriki urged party members to ensure the 35,000 votes recorded for APC in the 2019 senatorial election in Epe was doubled at the forthcoming election. Wale Raji, a member of the House of Representatives (APC- Epe) said Epe was faced with infrastructural challenges, youth unemployment, and lack of industries. He said Epe had always been for APC and urged the Federal and state government to see to the development of the area. Raji described Abiru as a competent candidate who would make the party and the senatorial district proud if elected. Abiru also visited traditional rulers of Ijebu communities at their monthly meeting at Noforija area of Epe. The monarchs, including the Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotobi and Oloja of Epe, Oba Kabiru Animashaun took turns to pray for the success of Abiru at the polls. Meanwhile, the APC has cleared the air on the emergence of Mr Tokunbo Abiru as its sole candidate for the senatorial bye-election for Lagos East, saying he was not imposed. Spokesman of the party in the state, Hon. Seye Oladejo, said at the weekend that: “There is nothing about his imposition,” adding that the constitution of the party allowed for consensus.