The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority of Nigeria (NCAA) has rescinded its earlier requirement that intending passengers to Nigeria must pay and print the confirmation of their COVID-19 test payment for them to be allowed to board flights into Nigeria. In a circular signed by the Director-General of NCAA, Capt. Musa Nuhu, and addressed to all foreign airlines operating in Nigeria, the NCAA explained that the suspension of the requirement is a result of the difficulty passengers are having with the payment platform. AIB moves to get NCAA certification on drone deployment Shake-up in NCAA as FG merges directorates, removes 4 directors Our Correspondent reports that international passengers, who came to Nigeria on Monday via Ethiopian Airlines, complained of inability to print their payment receipt, a situation that kept them at the airport for several hours because the airline won’t let them board. Acknowledging these difficulties, NCAA said: “Airlines are hereby notified that the presentation of evidence of payment receipt in the form of a QR code is recommended for all passengers but is not a mandatory requirement for boarding flights to Nigeria for now.” The circular reiterated that the “presentation of a negative COVID-19 PCR test valid within 96 hours of boarding remains mandatory for all passengers travelling to Nigeria. Airlines must ensure compliance with this requirement. “Flying passengers that do not have a negative COVID-19 PCR test to Nigeria will attract a penalty of $3,500 per passenger.” The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority of Nigeria (NCAA) has rescinded its earlier requirement that intending passengers to Nigeria must pay and print the confirmation of their COVID-19 test payment for them to be allowed to board flights into Nigeria. In a circular signed by the Director-General of NCAA, Capt. Musa Nuhu, and addressed to all foreign airlines operating in Nigeria, the NCAA explained that the suspension of the requirement is a result of the difficulty passengers are having with the payment platform. AIB moves to get NCAA certification on drone deployment Shake-up in NCAA as FG merges directorates, removes 4 directors Our Correspondent reports that international passengers, who came to Nigeria on Monday via Ethiopian Airlines, complained of inability to print their payment receipt, a situation that kept them at the airport for several hours because the airline won’t let them board. Acknowledging these difficulties, NCAA said: “Airlines are hereby notified that the presentation of evidence of payment receipt in the form of a QR code is recommended for all passengers but is not a mandatory requirement for boarding flights to Nigeria for now.” The circular reiterated that the “presentation of a negative COVID-19 PCR test valid within 96 hours of boarding remains mandatory for all passengers travelling to Nigeria. Airlines must ensure compliance with this requirement. “Flying passengers that do not have a negative COVID-19 PCR test to Nigeria will attract a penalty of $3,500 per passenger.”