A Gwagwalada Chief Magistrate Court, Abuja, on Thursday foreclosed the rights of a mechanic, Gbenga Oshilaja, to defend himself over his failure to appear before the court. The chief magistrate, Yusuf Ibrahim, also issued a bench warrant against Oshilaja. “The rights of the defendant to enter defence have been foreclosed. “The case is hereby adjourned until Oct. 14, for judgment,” Ibrahim said. Earlier, the prosecuting counsel, Emeka Ihekoronye, applied that the right of the defendant to defend himself be foreclosed for abandoning his case. Ihekoronye said the defendant failed to appear in court since his case was adjourned for hearing, in spite of several letters to him to appear. He also urged the court to issue a bench warrant against the defendant in addition to foreclosing his right to enter defence, citing Section 352(4) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015. The prosecuting counsel said the defendant is standing trial for alleged negligent conduct and car theft. He alleged that sometime in October 2018, one Wisdom Ihemadu of Life Camp, Abuja, entrusted his Toyota Camry car with registration number FC327ABJ valued N1.5 million to the defendant for repair at his mechanic workshop. Ihekoronye alleged that the defendant intentionally took the car to his house at Giri in Gwagwalada without the consent of the complainant, from where the car was stolen. He said that the offence contravened sections 196 and 206 of the penal code. (NAN) A Gwagwalada Chief Magistrate Court, Abuja, on Thursday foreclosed the rights of a mechanic, Gbenga Oshilaja, to defend himself over his failure to appear before the court. The chief magistrate, Yusuf Ibrahim, also issued a bench warrant against Oshilaja. “The rights of the defendant to enter defence have been foreclosed. “The case is hereby adjourned until Oct. 14, for judgment,” Ibrahim said. Earlier, the prosecuting counsel, Emeka Ihekoronye, applied that the right of the defendant to defend himself be foreclosed for abandoning his case. Ihekoronye said the defendant failed to appear in court since his case was adjourned for hearing, in spite of several letters to him to appear. He also urged the court to issue a bench warrant against the defendant in addition to foreclosing his right to enter defence, citing Section 352(4) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015. The prosecuting counsel said the defendant is standing trial for alleged negligent conduct and car theft. He alleged that sometime in October 2018, one Wisdom Ihemadu of Life Camp, Abuja, entrusted his Toyota Camry car with registration number FC327ABJ valued N1.5 million to the defendant for repair at his mechanic workshop. Ihekoronye alleged that the defendant intentionally took the car to his house at Giri in Gwagwalada without the consent of the complainant, from where the car was stolen. He said that the offence contravened sections 196 and 206 of the penal code. (NAN)