The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) has warned radio and television stations against hasty announcement of Edo governorship election result. NBC, in a statement on Monday, said the Nigeria Broadcasting Code forbade broadcasters from using any vote obtained at a polling station or from an exit poll, to project or speculate on the chances of a candidate at an election. The commission also said radio and television stations should only relay election results or declare a winner only after the authorized electoral officer for the election had done so. It also drew the attention of broadcasters to “section 5.3.3 of the Nigeria Broadcasting Code which stipulates that the broadcaster shall ensure that the broadcast of a partisan political campaign, jingle, announcement, and any other form of partisan party identification or symbol ends not later than twenty-four hours before polling day.’’ The commission, along with stakeholders, have been working towards a free and fair governorship election in Edo State and enjoins broadcasters to continue to perform their duties professionally in order to bring about a successful democratic process, the statement added. “Nevertheless, the Commission uses this opportunity to warn all broadcasters to adhere to the provisions of the Nigeria Broadcasting Code, Regulations and other Extant Laws, as it will not hesitate to sanction any Broadcaster that contravenes the above requirements,’’ the statement said. The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) has warned radio and television stations against hasty announcement of Edo governorship election result. NBC, in a statement on Monday, said the Nigeria Broadcasting Code forbade broadcasters from using any vote obtained at a polling station or from an exit poll, to project or speculate on the chances of a candidate at an election. The commission also said radio and television stations should only relay election results or declare a winner only after the authorized electoral officer for the election had done so. It also drew the attention of broadcasters to “section 5.3.3 of the Nigeria Broadcasting Code which stipulates that the broadcaster shall ensure that the broadcast of a partisan political campaign, jingle, announcement, and any other form of partisan party identification or symbol ends not later than twenty-four hours before polling day.’’ The commission, along with stakeholders, have been working towards a free and fair governorship election in Edo State and enjoins broadcasters to continue to perform their duties professionally in order to bring about a successful democratic process, the statement added. “Nevertheless, the Commission uses this opportunity to warn all broadcasters to adhere to the provisions of the Nigeria Broadcasting Code, Regulations and other Extant Laws, as it will not hesitate to sanction any Broadcaster that contravenes the above requirements,’’ the statement said.