The Oyo State governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 general elections, Oloye Bayo Adelabu, on Thursday said he was happy for not winning the governorship elections in the state. Adelabu, who spoke during a media parley heralding his 50th birthday celebration, said losing the election had afforded him the opportunity of knowing more about how progressives in the state operated. Oyo: With our evidences, I will get my mandate back soon, says Adelabu Oyo: Court orders INEC to allow Adelabu, APC inspect materials According to the former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, unlike before, he has warmed himself into the hearts of the grassroots and members of the APC. “Everything this administration promised the people of the state is still on their wish list 16 months after coming on board. “With the calibre of people that have returned to APC, no party can stand in the way of our party,” he said. Adelabu was full of thanks to God for sparing his life to attain 50 years, noting that his grandfather, Adegoke Adelabu and father AbdulRauf Adelabu, both died aged 43 and 33 respectively. The Oyo State governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 general elections, Oloye Bayo Adelabu, on Thursday said he was happy for not winning the governorship elections in the state. Adelabu, who spoke during a media parley heralding his 50th birthday celebration, said losing the election had afforded him the opportunity of knowing more about how progressives in the state operated. Oyo: With our evidences, I will get my mandate back soon, says Adelabu Oyo: Court orders INEC to allow Adelabu, APC inspect materials According to the former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, unlike before, he has warmed himself into the hearts of the grassroots and members of the APC. “Everything this administration promised the people of the state is still on their wish list 16 months after coming on board. “With the calibre of people that have returned to APC, no party can stand in the way of our party,” he said. Adelabu was full of thanks to God for sparing his life to attain 50 years, noting that his grandfather, Adegoke Adelabu and father AbdulRauf Adelabu, both died aged 43 and 33 respectively.