The Samsung Galaxy S20 Fan Edition (FE) being the newest member of the Galaxy S20 series was inspired by the fans of the company’s products, the Managing Director, Samsung Electronics West Africa, Mr. Caden Yu, has said. In a statement, the firm said the product is a premium flagship smartphone that has got innovations, which the Galaxy fans told Samsung, they love the most, along with its average pricing. He said, “The S20 FE is an extension of the Galaxy S20 family and is the start of a new way to bring meaningful innovation to even more people to let them do the things they love with the best of Galaxy.” The Samsung boss said although COVID-19 disrupted the world but technology is now playing a critical role in people’s lives, adding that Galaxy S20 FE would provide more experiences for customers. Mr Yu noted that Samsung picked key features of the Galaxy S20 series, such as the super-smooth scrolling display, an AI-powered camera, advanced chipset, hyper-fast connectivity, all-day battery, expandable storage, and a streamlined premium design, to create the brand new Galaxy S20 FE. The new mobile phone, which will be in the market by October 23, is also water and dust resistant. It is however available already along with the 24 months warranty and screen repair offer that comes with pre-order from October 9, with wireless Bluetooth earphones, and clear standing cover, a four-month free subscription on YouTube premium. The firm also offers Trade-In discount as one can swap old phones and get a discount. The Samsung Galaxy S20 Fan Edition (FE) being the newest member of the Galaxy S20 series was inspired by the fans of the company’s products, the Managing Director, Samsung Electronics West Africa, Mr. Caden Yu, has said. In a statement, the firm said the product is a premium flagship smartphone that has got innovations, which the Galaxy fans told Samsung, they love the most, along with its average pricing. He said, “The S20 FE is an extension of the Galaxy S20 family and is the start of a new way to bring meaningful innovation to even more people to let them do the things they love with the best of Galaxy.” The Samsung boss said although COVID-19 disrupted the world but technology is now playing a critical role in people’s lives, adding that Galaxy S20 FE would provide more experiences for customers. Mr Yu noted that Samsung picked key features of the Galaxy S20 series, such as the super-smooth scrolling display, an AI-powered camera, advanced chipset, hyper-fast connectivity, all-day battery, expandable storage, and a streamlined premium design, to create the brand new Galaxy S20 FE. The new mobile phone, which will be in the market by October 23, is also water and dust resistant. It is however available already along with the 24 months warranty and screen repair offer that comes with pre-order from October 9, with wireless Bluetooth earphones, and clear standing cover, a four-month free subscription on YouTube premium. The firm also offers Trade-In discount as one can swap old phones and get a discount.