The Federal Government of Nigeria said it will provide resources to effectively coordinate the implementation of the national action plan for the Open Government Partnership (OGP) across states. Minister of State Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, spoke on Thursday in Abuja during the 9th National Steering Committee meeting. He also tasked the technical working group on the development of a new national development plan to ensure the OGP principles are integrated into the actual plan. “One major concern I had at my meetings with the donors that have supported the implementation of OGP in Nigeria was the lack of government funding for OGP. “I wrote to the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning as well as the DG, Budget Office of the federation to make budgetary provisions for the OGP secretariats,” he said. “This will help overcome dependence on donor support for the process and ensure the effectiveness of the secretariats.” The Minister for Sports and Youth Development, Mr Sunday Dare, who is also a co-chair of the steering committee, said it has been a challenging year due to the outbreak of the Coronavirus. The Federal Government of Nigeria said it will provide resources to effectively coordinate the implementation of the national action plan for the Open Government Partnership (OGP) across states. Minister of State Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, spoke on Thursday in Abuja during the 9th National Steering Committee meeting. He also tasked the technical working group on the development of a new national development plan to ensure the OGP principles are integrated into the actual plan. “One major concern I had at my meetings with the donors that have supported the implementation of OGP in Nigeria was the lack of government funding for OGP. “I wrote to the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning as well as the DG, Budget Office of the federation to make budgetary provisions for the OGP secretariats,” he said. “This will help overcome dependence on donor support for the process and ensure the effectiveness of the secretariats.” The Minister for Sports and Youth Development, Mr Sunday Dare, who is also a co-chair of the steering committee, said it has been a challenging year due to the outbreak of the Coronavirus.