The national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said the “suspension” of Ekiti state governor, Kayode Fayemi and other members of the party by the Senator Tony Adeniyi-led state executive is a nullity. The Senator Adeniyi-led faction of the APC had announced the suspension of the state governor over alleged anti-party activities. In a communique at the end of its meeting on Thursday, signed by its chairman, Senator  Adeniyi, and seven other executive members, the faction said the governor has failed to initiate ward congresses. It also claimed that the governor did not call for a meeting of the state executive to deliberate on critical issues affecting the party since he assumed office as Ekiti governor in 2018. But the APC in a statement on Friday, by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary,  Yekini Nabena said it was yet to receive such report from the state chapter of the party, describing the group as fake. The APC urged its members in Ekiti state to always adhere strictly to the party’s constitution, stressing that Governor Fayemi remained the authentic leader of the party in the state. “The attention of the National Secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been drawn to a purported and widely-reported suspension of the Governor of Ekiti state, H.E. Kayode Fayemi, as well as an earlier reported indefinite suspension of some other party members in the state. “In line with the mandate of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee and the President’s admonition to party members to ensure and support ongoing amicable and rancour-free settlement of internal party disputes, we call on our esteemed party members and leaders in Ekiti state to be duly guided. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Architect Paul Omotosho-chaired APC Ekiti state Working Committee is the authentic, valid and duly recognised Executive as no factions or divisions exist in the state Chapter,” the party said. The national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said the “suspension” of Ekiti state governor, Kayode Fayemi and other members of the party by the Senator Tony Adeniyi-led state executive is a nullity. The Senator Adeniyi-led faction of the APC had announced the suspension of the state governor over alleged anti-party activities. In a communique at the end of its meeting on Thursday, signed by its chairman, Senator  Adeniyi, and seven other executive members, the faction said the governor has failed to initiate ward congresses. It also claimed that the governor did not call for a meeting of the state executive to deliberate on critical issues affecting the party since he assumed office as Ekiti governor in 2018. But the APC in a statement on Friday, by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary,  Yekini Nabena said it was yet to receive such report from the state chapter of the party, describing the group as fake. The APC urged its members in Ekiti state to always adhere strictly to the party’s constitution, stressing that Governor Fayemi remained the authentic leader of the party in the state. “The attention of the National Secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been drawn to a purported and widely-reported suspension of the Governor of Ekiti state, H.E. Kayode Fayemi, as well as an earlier reported indefinite suspension of some other party members in the state. “In line with the mandate of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee and the President’s admonition to party members to ensure and support ongoing amicable and rancour-free settlement of internal party disputes, we call on our esteemed party members and leaders in Ekiti state to be duly guided. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Architect Paul Omotosho-chaired APC Ekiti state Working Committee is the authentic, valid and duly recognised Executive as no factions or divisions exist in the state Chapter,” the party said.