The chairman, Edo state chapter of the All Progressives Congress, Aselm Ojezua, has expressed mixed feelings that governor Godwin Obaseki didn’t get reelection on the platform of the party Reacting to Obaseki’s win, Ojezua said he received the news with mixed feelings. “I am sad that the governor didn’t secure this victory on the platform of APC,” he said. According to him, the reason for Obaseki’s victory was that the Edo APC has already reached a consensus to support him as the candidate of the party but Adams Oshiomhole pushed him out of the party by his unwholesome disqualification from the party. “As at the time I did make a statement that our most treasured asset is the governor. That statement has been vindicated by the victory the governor has secured.” He said, “I am the state chairman of APC even though the party was said to have contested this election, you will notice that they conducted their campaigns without the party,”. “They treated the party with contempt and unfortunately the national organ of the party cooperated with them in this negligence believing that they could secure victory without the platform. So, we were just there looking at them. I think we are all wiser now,” he said. The chairman, Edo state chapter of the All Progressives Congress, Aselm Ojezua, has expressed mixed feelings that governor Godwin Obaseki didn’t get reelection on the platform of the party Reacting to Obaseki’s win, Ojezua said he received the news with mixed feelings. “I am sad that the governor didn’t secure this victory on the platform of APC,” he said. According to him, the reason for Obaseki’s victory was that the Edo APC has already reached a consensus to support him as the candidate of the party but Adams Oshiomhole pushed him out of the party by his unwholesome disqualification from the party. “As at the time I did make a statement that our most treasured asset is the governor. That statement has been vindicated by the victory the governor has secured.” He said, “I am the state chairman of APC even though the party was said to have contested this election, you will notice that they conducted their campaigns without the party,”. “They treated the party with contempt and unfortunately the national organ of the party cooperated with them in this negligence believing that they could secure victory without the platform. So, we were just there looking at them. I think we are all wiser now,” he said.