The All Progressives Party (APC) in Edo State has alleged foul play in Saturday’s governorship election. The party however  called on  members to remain calm while its leaders study the result and decide what to do next. In a statement signed by the Chairman of the APC Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki, the party rejected the result, citing alleged strong arm tactics. He said, “Our people were arbitrarily arrested while many of the figures were fabricated. “Areas where we won, they cancelled them.  They decreased the votes in areas we had advantage. They rejected our results and jerked up theirs.” He said Obaseki  shouted that he was being rigged out and blamed INEC at the initial stage, adding,  “That was to divert attention from the evil going on in the field by the PDP. This comes after the party’s chairman Anselm Ojezua said the party regretted not having Obaseki win the election on an APC ticket. Ojezua said he regretted the situation that allowed Adams Oshiomhole to squeeze Obaseki out of the party. Correspondents speak of a divide in the party, noting it doesn’t recognise Ojezua as chairman on account of the crisis that led to the disqualification of Obaseki. The All Progressives Party (APC) in Edo State has alleged foul play in Saturday’s governorship election. The party however  called on  members to remain calm while its leaders study the result and decide what to do next. In a statement signed by the Chairman of the APC Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki, the party rejected the result, citing alleged strong arm tactics. He said, “Our people were arbitrarily arrested while many of the figures were fabricated. “Areas where we won, they cancelled them.  They decreased the votes in areas we had advantage. They rejected our results and jerked up theirs.” He said Obaseki  shouted that he was being rigged out and blamed INEC at the initial stage, adding,  “That was to divert attention from the evil going on in the field by the PDP. This comes after the party’s chairman Anselm Ojezua said the party regretted not having Obaseki win the election on an APC ticket. Ojezua said he regretted the situation that allowed Adams Oshiomhole to squeeze Obaseki out of the party. Correspondents speak of a divide in the party, noting it doesn’t recognise Ojezua as chairman on account of the crisis that led to the disqualification of Obaseki.