The Lagos State Police Command announced on Monday that it had arrested a suspected cultist, Muritala Ahmed, who it described as “one of the deadliest cult gang members” in the Ijora-Badia area of the state. The police said Ahmed, 22, had been on its “most wanted list” over numerous killings and violence in the Ijora and Orile-Igamu areas. The Command told Daily Trust that operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) arrested the suspect, said to be widely known as “Terror” in cult circles, three weeks ago, along with six suspected members of his gang. The identities of the other arrested suspects were given as Saheed Idris, 28; Sunday Ifelowo, 28; Adams Babatunde, 32; Akeem Ajibola, 32; Jamiu Balogun, 24, and Sodiq Balogun, 22. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said the suspects were arrested under the bridge at Ijora Badia allegedly causing a breach of the peace, smashing windscreens of innocent motorists and robbing them of cash, phones and other valuables. “They are notorious and have been responsible for the recent attacks on residents of Ijora and Ajegunle and most of the killings in Ijora,” Elkana said.  The Lagos State Police Command announced on Monday that it had arrested a suspected cultist, Muritala Ahmed, who it described as “one of the deadliest cult gang members” in the Ijora-Badia area of the state. The police said Ahmed, 22, had been on its “most wanted list” over numerous killings and violence in the Ijora and Orile-Igamu areas. The Command told Daily Trust that operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) arrested the suspect, said to be widely known as “Terror” in cult circles, three weeks ago, along with six suspected members of his gang. The identities of the other arrested suspects were given as Saheed Idris, 28; Sunday Ifelowo, 28; Adams Babatunde, 32; Akeem Ajibola, 32; Jamiu Balogun, 24, and Sodiq Balogun, 22. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said the suspects were arrested under the bridge at Ijora Badia allegedly causing a breach of the peace, smashing windscreens of innocent motorists and robbing them of cash, phones and other valuables. “They are notorious and have been responsible for the recent attacks on residents of Ijora and Ajegunle and most of the killings in Ijora,” Elkana said. 