The Ogun State government says it has commenced the process of addressing the challenges of multiplicity of taxes and duplication of haulage fees, as well as other issues facing the mining and transport sectors of the state’s economy. The state’s Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mrs. Kikelomo Longe, disclosed this during a mining stakeholders’ engagement meeting, a statement from the ministry said. According to Longe, the process would improve the ease of doing business in the sectors. Mrs. Longe added that the Prince Dapo Abiodun administration was already working on the harmonization of taxes in the state to address the challenge of multiple taxes and duplication of haulage fees by other tiers of government, especially local government, while also taking necessary action to support artisanal miners in the state. The statement also quoted the state’s Commissioner for Transport, Gbenga Dairo, represented by the Director, Planning, Research and Statistics in the ministry, Mr Tosin Akinleye, as assuring the stakeholders that the ministry, alongside that of Industry, Trade and Investment, would continue to work in synergy to address the challenges inhibiting the two sectors. The Chairman, Miners Association of Nigeria (MAN), Ogun State Council, Mr Sola Aikulola, and the Public Relations Officer, Nigeria Union of Mine Workers, Ogun State chapter, Comrade Tunde Soneye, called for more engagement of stakeholders and speedy harmonisation of the state’s taxes.  The Ogun State government says it has commenced the process of addressing the challenges of multiplicity of taxes and duplication of haulage fees, as well as other issues facing the mining and transport sectors of the state’s economy. The state’s Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mrs. Kikelomo Longe, disclosed this during a mining stakeholders’ engagement meeting, a statement from the ministry said. According to Longe, the process would improve the ease of doing business in the sectors. Mrs. Longe added that the Prince Dapo Abiodun administration was already working on the harmonization of taxes in the state to address the challenge of multiple taxes and duplication of haulage fees by other tiers of government, especially local government, while also taking necessary action to support artisanal miners in the state. The statement also quoted the state’s Commissioner for Transport, Gbenga Dairo, represented by the Director, Planning, Research and Statistics in the ministry, Mr Tosin Akinleye, as assuring the stakeholders that the ministry, alongside that of Industry, Trade and Investment, would continue to work in synergy to address the challenges inhibiting the two sectors. The Chairman, Miners Association of Nigeria (MAN), Ogun State Council, Mr Sola Aikulola, and the Public Relations Officer, Nigeria Union of Mine Workers, Ogun State chapter, Comrade Tunde Soneye, called for more engagement of stakeholders and speedy harmonisation of the state’s taxes. 