The Lagos State Government has warned private school owners against plan to resume academic activities for third term, 2019/2020 session via online teaching. Commissioner for education, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo, stated categorically that all schools in Lagos State remain closed and have not yet been opened for the third term, stressing that the State continues to offer free teachings on various media, especially radio and television. This, she said, will continue to improve on the educational offering of its distance learning programmes. “The Ministry wishes to state categorically that all schools in Lagos State remain closed and have not yet been opened for the third term. The State continues to offer free teachings on various media, especially radio and television. “We are pleased that students and pupils across private and public schools are taking advantage of this free service,” she said. According to the Commissioner, the third term resumption remains postponed until directives to the contrary. She said: “As we are already aware, the State is presently on lockdown imposed by the Federal Government over the COVID-19 pandemic. “Most schools are charging for this online service; often at a discount on existing tuition fees while some schools are charging full fees. “Parents are concerned about the cost of this programme, ranging from fees charged by schools to cost of data and devices as well as the cost of fuelling generators to ensure steady electricity power supply. “Parents also have to supervise online teachings to guard against the exposure of children to pornography, in addition to online harassment and bullying. “The Ministry calls for continuous dialogue between school administrators and parents. We are aware that most parents are not working and earning money at the moment; we are also aware that schools continue to incur costs as teachers and other members of the staff have to be paid for providing online teaching.” She further noted that the schools, in some cases, will have to purchase devices for teachers and provide them with data to prepare for the daily teaching activities. “In view of the aforementioned, we ask that schools consult extensively with parents and find a win-win solution that will be acceptable to all stakeholders,” Adefisayo added. Lagos remains the epicentre of the coronavirus in Nigeria with 689 confirmed cases. Governors of the 36 States of the federation have advised the federal government to allow internal free movement but with restrictions on large gatherings and assemblies as the second 14-day lockdown on the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Lagos, and Ogun States in order to stop the spread of the novel COVID-19 ends on midnight Monday. COVID -19: ‘Lengthy school closures impair learning, academic stability’ We’re not against online teaching — Lagos govt Parents, students lament closure of Borno schools