The National Coordinator, African Union Development Agency-New Partnership for Africa’s Development/African Peer Review mechanism (AUDA-NEPAD/APRM) Nigeria, Princess Gloria Akobundu, has said that the country can mitigate economic impact of global pandemic through strategic Public Private Partnership (PPP). She said this while featuring on a virtual conference with the topic “Leveraging COVID-19 disruptions for economic growth in Africa”, organised by Pristine Ecologistics Cloud-based conferencing platform. According to her, despite the lockdown as a result of the COVID-19, how to overcome the virus and cushion its effect should not be lost on the nation and the nation’s economy post-COVID-19 should be a priority. “There is need for bottom-top approach in strategic partnership, focusing on grassroots challenges to get lasting solutions to COVID-19 and other national challenges. If agricultural sector receives more partnership support in production, processing and packaging of farm outputs, larger ratio of unemployed population can be gainfully engaged while agricultural wastages can become income. “Self-sufficiency in food production is a success for a nation of over 200 million population, but the nation cannot afford to rest on its oars,” she said in a statement on Friday in Abuja by her spokesman, Mr. Abolade Ogundimu. Akobundu also called for deliberate PPP in the area of skills acquisition programmes and education. She said, “Provision of more technology hubs with basic amenities can also be another means of channelling our youths’ energies towards National development which leads to global prominence.” Akobundu said that given the abundance of resources, recent prediction of World Bank that Africa would experience between -2.5 percent to -5.1 percent recession at the end of COVID-19 pandemic, should not be experienced by Nigeria. She also commiserated with President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal Executive Council over the death of late Mallam Abba Kyari, Chief of Staff to the President, describing him as a leader par excellence. The AUDA-NEPAD/APRM boss featured along with Ambassador Jerome Ringo, Goodwill Ambassador, Pan- African Parliament and founder, Zoetic Energy from United States of America. The Moderator, Dr. Paul Abolo, on behalf of the organisers, commended the speakers for doing justice to the topic by proffering insightful ideas on how the continent could navigate economic threats of COVID-19 pandemic. Experts chart roadmap to AfCTA’s July 2020 take-off Over 25,000 COVID-19 cases reported in Africa-    WHO As COVID-19 threatens over N9trn budgets: States stop projects, cut overheads