The Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) Zaria, has hinted that Nigeria will soon take delivery of a new B737 full motion flight simulator training purposes. The stimulator, acquired at a cost of $21million has been under procurement for about four years now. Giving these hints during a chat with Daily Trust, the NCAT Rector,Capt. Abdulsalam Mohammed, exclusively told our correspondent that the facility had been shipped in spite the COVID-19 pandemic. He, however, didn’t say exactly when the simulator would arrive but our Correspondent gathered it might not be later than June 2020. It would be recalled that the Minister of Aviation, Sen, Hadi Sirika announced last January that the government had received the facility in Montreal Canada, but that shipment would be in March,2020. He said: “In Montreal Canada, I received Boeing 737 full motion flight training simulator for NCAT Zaria, ready for shipment in March. This will increase NCAT’s capability, save forex and reduce cost incurred by our airlines. A well trained, proficient Pilot is number one key to safety.” Before then, the Rector had also told our correspondent that the simulator had been assembled but cannot be shipped to the country due to lack of appropriate building to keep it. But with the delivery in March, the building will be ready for the installation of the simulator at NCAT. The $21 million simulator was initially supposed to be delivered to Nigeria in December 2016 but that didn’t happen because of delayed in payments from the Nigerian government. “The simulator is already built and ready to be shipped to Nigeria. What we are waiting is for the building where the simulator will be installed to be ready. The manufacturer in Canada insists that they can’t ship the equipment to Nigeria except the building is ready for installation” he said. Available official statistics show that Nigeria spends on the average about $13 million annually to train pilots outside the country. Industry analysts estimate that with the simulator, the country could save up to $4 million on pilots’ training annually, apart from hotels and flight tickets expenditures. We are locating NCAT’s simulator in Lagos for commercial gains – Rector Forex crisis behind $21m flight simulator delay – NCAT Rector Aviation College gets FG’s nod to acquire 20 aircraft