APM Terminal, one of the port operators in the country, has disclosed that it is committing $438 million to the expansion of its operations in Nigeria According to the company, the sum comprises $80 million for the recent procurement of two mobile cranes which form part of its investments on facility for 2020-2021 financial year. The Head of Terminals, Africa and Middle East region,  Mr. David Skov, who disclosed this yesterday at the commissioning of the cranes, said  the company had invested $358 million in port infrastructure development, information technology upgrades and modern cargo handling equipment to improve both quayside and land-side operations. He said: “The additional investment we are making is to handle the increased trade volumes into Nigeria. Trade in Nigeria is growing due to the many favorable efforts and policies of the Federal government of Nigeria including but not limited to the policy on ease of doing business; stabilization of foreign exchange; closure of the land borders which has increased the use of our sea ports; and diversification of the economy. “The additional investments will create capacity to handle the growth in the economy to support the Federal government’s efforts on trade growth and improve service delivery across the logistic chain in Nigeria”, Scov added. He explained that with the acquisition of the new cranes, the terminal is now operating with 10 Mobile Harbour Cranes; 23 Rubber-Tyred Gantry Cranes; six Empty Handlers; 48 specialized Truck Terminals, six Reach Stackers and 11 Forklifts. The Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Hadiza Bala Usman, who commissioned the two new Mobile Harbor Cranes (MHCs), said the new cranes were acquired as part of the company’s additional investment of $80 million, bringing the total investment by the company in Apapa since 2006 to $438 million (about N166 billion), which is the highest by any private terminal operator in the country. APM Terminals is the biggest container terminal in West Africa and the best-equipped port terminal in Nigeria. Usman said the ports were concessioned by the government to improve port efficiency and free government resources for other developmental purposes. She said cargo volumes at the port had increased due to favourable government policies. “We are also working with terminal operators to increase the barging of containers to take pressure off the roads. We have noted a significant growth in barging capacity and operations with more containers moved daily by barges from the port,” she assured. APM terminals to acquire equipment to tackle port congestion APM terminals appoints 1st Nigerian MD APMT donates N100m to support COVID-19 pandemic fight