Following a memo by Max Air to the effect that payment of staff salaries and remunerations is not sustainable due to stoppage of its flight operations, the House of Representatives Committee on Aviation has intervened, calling on all airlines to show compassion to their workers in this trying time. Daily Trust reports that the memo by Max Air has caused panic among aviation workers, who feel the suspension of flights over the coronavirus pandemic could trigger job losses. Already, it was learnt that some airlines find it difficult to pay staff salaries in the face of the current industry-wide suspension of flights. Max Air, one of the domestic airlines, had, in a message to its workers, said, “It is regrettable to inform all staff that Max Air Ltd will not be able to further provide remuneration for the duration stated by the Federal Government, and if the situation persists, the same applies as well.” Reacting to the memo, the House Committee Chairman on Aviation, Hon. Nnolim Nnaji, appealed to airlines and private organisations within the aviation sector not to abandon their staff in this period of uncertainties occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic. Nnaji said he was disturbed by the memo issued by Max Air to its employees, adding that his worry was compounded by the declaration from Max Air “that the state of no pay would extend if the situation persisted.” The lawmaker appealed to the management of the airline to reconsider what he called “hard line posture by retracing its action in this regard” and charged other carriers to see this trying period as a time of sacrifice and show extreme compassion to their staff. “I am aware that elsewhere, governments are providing palliatives for employers of labour to cushion the impact of this pandemic but because of our peculiar circumstances, the Federal Government may not immediately offer such at the moment”. He urged the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sariki, to step in and hold talks with the various stakeholders in the industry to avoid the ripple effects of Max Air action. The Committee Chairman also called for understanding among the people and leaders of the South East Region over the aborted reopening of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport (AIIA) Enugu before Easter as planned. Flight suspension: Max Air 'suspends' remuneration Indigenous airlines: Bracing the odds as COVID-19 clips carriers’ wings page 26 AVIATION 2015 REVIEW