The Presidency on Friday challenged Senator Ali Ndume to either figure out what it called ‘kleptocrats’ around President Muhammadu Buhari or keep quiet. Ndume has reiterated his call for the sacking of the COVID-19 Palliative Measures Committee over its “dubious way” of distributing palliatives to indigent Nigerians. Presidential spokesperson, Garba Shehu, in a statement, said it was “disappointing” to hear a politician called out unnamed individuals in the administration and accused them of unnamed transgressions. Shehu said if Ndume has evidence, then he should make public their identities as well as his proof, stressing that innuendo is not proof. He added that simply claiming that the COVID-19 Palliative Measures Committee is not functioning as it should is not the same as presenting proof for such a claim. The presidential media aide, who said no one replaces an institutional government body in the midst of the global pandemic without clear and irrefutable evidence that it needs replacing, stated that a press briefing from a discontented politician is rarely the source of such evidence. He said: “At this difficult time of the battle by Nigeria against Coronavirus, everyone should help the fight and not seek to make political capital out of it, whatever his or her grievances.” Shehu added: “When he was first elected President in 2015, President Muhammadu Buhari said that he belonged to everybody and belonged to nobody. What was true then remains true today. “He believes in public service, as a servant of the people – and he expects the exact same commitment from members of his government and, of course, his closest aides. “The President has made it clear times without number that anyone who will not, cannot, or does not pull his weight – nor meet these exacting standards – is not welcome in his administration. A number of ranking officials have been shown the way out at various times simply on account of this. “Similarly, he believes in loyalty and truthfulness. Should any individuals be found to be serving themselves and not the people, then it is right and proper to call them out. But this must be done on the basis of evidence and proof – not on conjecture.” Ndume wants palliatives committee disbanded Covid-19 Palliatives: Group defends Minister, faults Ndume's allegations Coronavirus: FG on top of situation – Presidency