Securities and Exchange Commission, (SEC) has reiterated that all public companies must continue to make appropriate disclosures regardless of the movement restrictions in Abuja and Lagos. According to the SEC, in light of the global pandemic of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and in furtherance to the Commission’s circular of March 24,2020 the Commission provided additional guidance to the Capital Market. It said “All public companies are required to continue to make material disclosures to investors on the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on their business operations.” “They should also continue to disclose the trend and outlook for the company, and updates on implementation of business continuity plans. Public companies are to publish these disclosures on their websites and on other relevant media” it further stated. SEC further stated that “Public companies who plan to conduct AGMs are required to ensure that the conduct of the meetings comply with the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act, the Investments and Securities Act, the SEC Rules and Regulations, relevant government and health circulars and guidelines issued in this regard.” SEC said debt issuers are also expected to continue to engage Trustees to ensure that relevant disclosures are provided. Trustees are required to provide updates to the Commission accordingly. The Commission enjoined  all CMOs  to continue to monitor the real and potential risks COVID-19 may have on their business operations and the discharge of services to investors and clients, stating that for further guidance, the Commission may be contacted through the dedicated email addresses for filing CMOs returns. Meanwhile, the SEC has activated its business continuity process. Consequently, staff of the Commission are working remotely while all its electronic channels remain open to provide the necessary support to capital market stakeholders. SEC introduces e-filing, processing of applications/returns Audit report: Oando, SEC in showdown over penalties Oando under investigation over $1.5bn oil asset