The leadership of the Importers Association of Nigeria, has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to relax the lockdown order issued two weeks ago to tackle the spread of the cornavirus pandemic in the country. The National Coordinator of the association, Chief Obi Michael Ekwego, who lauded President Buahri for taking decisive steps to contain the spread of the virus, said relaxing it after the two weeks, would give opportunity to revive the economy and also enable clearing agents to clear their goods that have already incurred demurrage “We appreciate how President Muhammadu Buhari has led the country in dealing with this pandemic. He also assembled a powerful team of medical experts to ensure the country is free of the virus. We appeal to the Federal Government to restore freedom of movement after this 14-day lockdown,” he said. He appealed to Nigerians to support the efforts of the government by adhering to all the directives given by government and medical experts in tackling the virus. Some residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, have also urged President  Buhari to put an end to the Coronavirus lockdown in the area after the expiration of 14 days. The residents, who pleaded with the president, spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Monday in Abuja, in separate interviews. They said they were experiencing varying degrees of financial and economic constrains and frustrations caused by inactivity. Mr Alfred Oshemughen, an electrical contractor, said the lockdown was a good decision by the government, adding, however, that the strain it brought on its wake was frustrating. He said he had been experiencing financial difficulties since the lockdown was imposed by the president, as all his activities had come to a halt. “Even people, who were supposed to remit money to me from previous transactions, have taken advantage of the lockdown to come up with all sorts of excuses,’’ Oshemughen said. According to him, government should end the lockdown, while residents should still continue adhering to the preventive measures outlined by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). He noted that if people would keep to the social distancing directive of the NCDC, with regular washing of hands, the spread of the virus would be curtailed. He added that prolonging the lockdown would impact negatively on the national economy and drain the lean resources of the people. Mr Wifred Inyang, a businessman, said he was appealing to the president to end the lockdown because of dwindling resources. “Staying at home for 14 days without attending to regular business activities has affected my finances and productivity. “You cannot continue taking from your savings without putting back; otherwise, you will realise you have suddenly become poor,’’ Inyang said. Meanwhile the Nigerian Shippers’ Council has said it will sustain operations at the nation’s ports during the ongoing lockdown in order not to hamper the country’s economy. Lockdown suspension by states dangerous – Experts COVID-19: How Buhari failed to take action in vital weeks COVID-19: Presidency replies Soyinka, urges Nigerians to trust scientists not fiction writers