Some senior federal civil service retirees under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) “cornered” me the other day asking  whether the government will include those awaiting the remittance of their accrued pension rights into their Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs) among beneficiaries of the palliatives being rolled out to cushion the pains of the economic downturn forced by the COVID-19 pandemic. They asked me more questions related to their pending pension bonds which Senator Ibrahim Shekarau said are worth over N400 billion. It is after redeeming the bonds that its cash proceeds would be credited into thousands of RSAs. On that question my simple response was that the delay in redeeming the CBN-held bonds bearing their accrued pension rights could have been caused by the shortfalls in revenue and overall national income. Another response is that stakeholders can advocate that Section 16 (1-5) of the PRA 2014 which specified conditions for making withdrawals from RSAs prior to redeeming pension bonds should be relaxed. The relaxation should make it possible for the retired RSA holders to access the money in their accounts “on demand” to enable them meet immediate basic life-saving needs while the process of redeeming the bond is on. Section 15 (1a) and Section 39 (1) should be harmonised in such a way that their combined effect should making it possible for the RSA holder to start drawing benefit from the account within eight weeks after retirement. On the matter of raising N500 billion to fight COVID-19 while government owed pensioners about that amount in unredeemed pension bonds, I advised that they should refer that inquiry to the Federal Ministry of Finance. One of them was of the view that, since the retiree could not access the money in their RSAs pending the redemption of their bonds, they should benefit from the COVID-19 palliatives announced for indigent Nigerians by President Muhammadu Buhari. He wanted me to convey this idea or request to the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, “because you sign press releases on her behalf.” A retired federal Director of Administration pointedly observed that thousands of CPS retirees who exited the service between mid-2018 onward are in dire financial strain   because some provisions of the PRA 2014 have over-protected the money in their RSAs. Certainly those who “cornered” me feel that their plight is neither understood nor appreciated by those who should ameliorate their suffering it was a moving encounter. Their other reason for bringing the matter to the Pension Watch Column is their belief that it can deliver their plea to the appropriate quarters. They presumed that it has wide readership among policy makers, legislators and the leaders of pension management entities who could push for the amendment of some of the provisions of PRA 2014. It is worthy of noting that the retirees who “cornered” me think that the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Nigerian Union of Pensioners (NUP) should be lobbying for the requisite amendments to the Pension Reform Act. However, the process of COVIDi-19 palliatives or direct payments to the most vulnerable individuals in America from the US$2.2 trillion stimulus fund is on-going. In America individuals who earn US$75,000 and below annually will be paid $1,200; and couples $2,400, plus $500 per child as COVID-19 palliatives. Although the American was not categorical on whether it is a one-off direct payment or continuous until the pandemic ends, it is still a good deed. Many countries have included citizens living on inadequate pension among those who would be supported to remain financially afloat as to afford sufficient essential commodities as COVID-19 pandemic crippled economies and pushed millions into poverty. Pensioners on less than N30, 000 pension and majority of CPS retirees who are not yet on programmed withdrawal or annuity, ought to benefit from the palliatives.  Buhari set to end retirement benefits payment delay How budget cuts affect prompt payment of retirees Lagos govt pays N1.63bn to 321 retirees