AXA Group, the parent company to AXA Mansard Plc has listed some of the initiatives undertaken by it over the past few weeks in demonstration of its support to fight the COVID-19 pandemic globally. The company stated that at the early stage of the crisis, the AXA Research Fund was the first to support the COVID-19 Task Force launched by the Institut Pasteur, a world class research center, with 33 institutes in 25 countries. According to the group, it also launched the AXA Solidarity Response while at same time committing to research by earmarking 5 million euros to fight COVID-19. This is even as it hinted that it partnered with Fund 101, an organisation that federates more than 1,200 intensive care units across 60 countries, to share and accelerate improvements in therapeutic protocols. Also in France, AXA Group purchased 2 million masks, which were given to the medical system whilst also helping health workers by financing their meals. In addition, AXA Group has gone a step further in its commitment with 101 Fund by launching a global solidarity challenge, #AXA Solidarity Response, with its employees to support 1,200 intensive care units in 60 countries, including Nigeria. Speaking about the group’s commitment to the ongoing global efforts to end the scourge, AXA Group’s Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Buberl said, “The world is going through a crisis that will stand in collective memory. In an unstable environment, AXA has been fully mobilized since the outbreak of the pandemic to respond to two challenges: the health emergency, by protecting its employees and clients, and the economic and social emergency, by ensuring the continuity of a business that is essential to society. “In line with our mission, and consistent with the actions taken by public authorities around the world, we are announcing today new commitments to reinforce the impact of initiatives already underway”, Buberl added. In Nigeria, the group’s risk underwriting subsidiary, AXA Mansard Insurance has donated Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) worth millions of Naira to the Lagos State Government, College of Medicine and University College Hospital, Ibadan (UCH) and Nigeria Centre for Disease Control at the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). In addition, the insurer also donated life insurance cover for 100 medical professionals in Lagos, Abuja and Ibadan. AXA Mansard’s TVC showcases life insurance benefits, others Mansard Insurance rebrands to AXA Mansard Insurance Plc AXA Mansard launches First Responders Service