The senator representing Ogun Central at the National Assembly, Ibikunle Amosun, has distributed food items and other relief materials to about 25,000 households in Ogun State. Amosun, who is the state’s immediate past governor, equally donated N25 million to the government as part of his contributions to the fight against the coronavirus scourge in the state. Our correspondent reports that the branded food items, consisting of 10kg bag of rice, garri, noodles and groundnut oil, were distributed at the weekend across the state. Amosun, in a letter dated March 31, 2020, which he personally signed and addressed to Governor Dapo Abiodun, said that apart from his cash donation to the state, he would provide succour to the vulnerable in the state to cushion the effect of the lockdown. Amosun, who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Capital Markets, added that he would be in constant touch with federal agencies in and outside the state “with a view to offering maximum assistance to our people in these trying times.” A statement issued by the senator’s Special Assistant on Media, Bola Adeyemi, said the food items were packaged to reach the 3,210 polling unit areas in Ogun State. Describing the gesture as apolitical, Amosun added that critical stakeholders would also be reached through their respective leaders in an orderly manner throughout the state. “We hereby implore our people, particularly the needy and the vulnerable, to await the delivery of the palliatives in their respective polling units. As law-abiding citizens of Ogun State, we respectfully appeal to the expected beneficiaries of these palliatives to maintain government regulation on social distancing and orderliness in the distribution and collection of the packages throughout the state. “We also seize this opportunity to appeal to our people in Ogun State to continue to stay at home, wash your hands regularly, maintain good hygiene and comply with government regulation towards the prevention of coronavirus,” the statement read. Abiodun hopeful of Amosun’s endorsement in APC Abiodun certain of Amosun support despite APC Ogun crisis Ogun APC guber ticket: Amosun adamant, says no going back on Akinlade