The Senator representing Kaduna Central senatorial district, Malam Uba Sani has urged all Christians to pray harder for the country while observing the lockdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Senator regretted that whereas, typically, at Easter, Christians across the globe gather in churches to worship and celebrate the death of Jesus Christ on Friday and his glorious resurrection on Sunday, but this year celebration will be different as a result of the lockdown. He said although traditional church services are cancelled, this does not mean Easter is cancelled and its message can still be lived out in all walks of life in acts of service, compassion, and care. “The world, and indeed Nigeria has a lot to learn from the life and death of Jesus Christ as we struggle to keep the rampaging COVID-19 at bay. Health personnel in the frontline of the battle against COVID-19 are the real symbols of extraordinary love and sacrifice. They are risking their lives for our survival. Many have died, but rather than deter other health personnel, they are moving forward with uncommon zeal. They deserve our total support and prayers. “I urge us to emulate the exemplary humility, moderation and tact of Jesus Christ. He represents forgiveness and love. He deployed the “weapons” of patience, gentleness and love to great effect. We must use the occasion of Easter to forge unity and peace in our communities. This is a time to rebuild our communities. “The COVID-19 pandemic has created economic crisis in Nigeria. Governments at all levels are implementing tough measures to battle the invisible enemy. As painful as the measures may be, they are necessary for our survival. We must not despair. Rather, we should be at our creative and compassionate best. We must turn the strange situation into an opportunity to look inwards and develop our local capacities. “We must re-energize our sense of community and collectively fashion strategies to survive these challenging times. We either assist each other to go through the rough times or we shall be counted among the casualties,” he pointed out. Taraba lifts ban on Jumma’at prayers, church services Keep love alive despite difficulties, Atiku urges Nigerians Easter celebration in subdued manner 'unusual, unfortunate' — Buhari