The Minister of State for FCT, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu,  said the FCT Administration has carried out decontamination of the National Women Development Centre, Abuja, to guard against the COVID-19 spread and also to contain insects and rodents. According to a statement by the minister’s media aide, Mr, Austine Elemue, Aliyu spoke when she inspected the centre which is designated as an isolation facility in case the cases of COVID-19 shoot up. “We are here at the Maryam Babagida auditorium of the National Centre for Women Development to fumigate the environment completely, the entire building and the offices within to make sure that it is decontaminated of any infectious disease, not only the COVID-19 ; but also insects and rodents especially now that the centre has been designated as one of the isolation centres earmarked by the Federal Capital Territory,’’ she said. The centre, according to the minister, has the capacity to accommodate over 160 bed spaces with catering services aimed at ensuring an efficient, effective and impactful response to the coronavirus pandemic. “As we speak to you, we have some isolated cases in the centre. This centre has a very large hall of about 100 beds capacity and we have about 60 suites. This gives you a total of 160 bed spaces. This tells you how much we can accommodate in case we have increase in the number of patients to be isolated. “We are not praying that there should be an expansion of this case, but should there be, we have a place to accommodate them and we are ready. The management of the centre is not only housing suspected cases, but they are caring for them in terms of catering services for all the asymptomatic patients,” the minister said. Aliyu also received 1,000 cartons of assorted items from Honeywell Nigeria Limited to support the administration’s efforts in reaching out to the vulnerable, who are adversely affected by the sit-at-home order. As COVID-19 cases rise in FCT, only 2 FG isolation centres ready in Abuja COVID-19: One week after, no testing centres yet in Kano, Maiduguri, Abakaliki COVID-19: Only 169 ventilators in 16 states