The management of APM Terminals Nigeria hinted that it had committed N100 million to support the ongoing fight against the spread of COVID-19 in the country. This is even as it assured sustenance of its operations in Apapa and Onne Ports despite the COVID-19 scourge. The port operator also confirmed that it had adopted stringent measures, in line with the guidelines of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), to ensure the ports’ supply chain remains uninterrupted and essential supplies are maintained in the face of the pandemic. The Managing Director of APM Terminals Nigeria, Mohammed Ahmed, said, “As an essential service provider, all terminal operations are running normally and we urge importers to continue taking delivery of their containers to enable the fresh discharge of incoming cargo.” Specifically, he disclosed that the company contributed N75 million towards the United Nations in Nigeria basket fund and is committing another N25 million on community awareness through radio, social media as well as fliers to sensitize the Apapa community on how to curb the spread of the pandemic.  The United Nations in Nigeria basket fund aims to mobilize resources to boost the efforts of the government in addressing the COVID-19 pandemic. “No one is immune nor invulnerable from this disease. We urge all to adhere to the guidance from government in order to curb the spread of this pandemic. In this time of need, APM Terminals is honored to discharge its duty to the nation. The wellbeing of our community remains of paramount importance to us. Through our contribution to the UN basket fund, we will play our part in strengthening the country’s capacity to respond” Ahmed said. Also speaking on the donation, the UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator in Nigeria, Edward Kallon, said, “The UN system in Nigeria will support and complement government’s efforts to immediately set up a national response fund that will serve as a single national platform and financing framework, coordinating partnerships and mobilizing resources that can make an effective impact on the ground.”  APMT promises to sustain operations at Apapa, Onne ports Sea robbery: NPA, Navy join forces to tackle activities at illegal jetties, terminals Adenuga Foundation commits N1.5bn to Nigeria’s Coronavirus fight