Worried by the increasing number of COVID 19 cases, the Lagos State government has threatened to shut down any market that fails to comply with the social distancing order. Officials of the Nigeria Centre for Decease Control (NCDC) had advised citizens to observe social distancing as a way to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease. Daily Trust reports that Lagos State has the highest number of infections, having recorded a total of 376 by Sunday. The Corps Marshal, Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC), Gbemisola Akinpelu, yesterday advised traders in markets in the state to ensure strict compliance with the order, warning that defaulters of the directives would be appropriately sanctioned by the state government. Akinpelu, a retired Commissioner of Police, who dropped the warning at the body’s Command Headquarters, Bolade, Oshodi, explained that the measure was necessary in order to break the cycle of transmission of the deadly pandemic According to her, “overcrowded areas such as our markets will help to increase the spread of this pandemic if social distancing is not adhered to and this will pose a great danger to the effort of the state government at combatting the spread of the virus.” She stressed that the Commissioner, Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources, has directed the immediate shut down of violating markets. The Corps Marshal further explained that in the light of this, the agency would continue to beam its searchlight on all the markets in the state to ensure that the directive was strictly adhered to. Mrs Akinpelu admonished market leaders on the need to maintain environmental cleanliness in the markets and stop trading on road setbacks and drainages. She advocated personal hygiene among traders and other market users through engaging in regular hand washing with soap and water and regular use of hand sanitiser and nose mask. She also reiterated the need to consult the nearest hospital or testing centres for any ailment to ensure that the spread of the virus is curbed. She advised people who do not have any business in any market to stay at home to reduce the numbers of people within the market arenas. LAGESC deploys more personnel to enforce government’s directives COVID-19: 202 persons arrested for violating stay-at-home order ANLCA shuts Secretariat over COVID-19