The Save the Children International (SCI) Nigeria has raised the alarm that the COVID-19 pandemic will force many poor households to turn to desperate measures to survive, while children could face increased risk of child labour, sexual exploitation and child marriage. The Acting Country Director of the organisation, Mercy Gichuhi, said this on Thursday in Abuja in a statement, signed by Amanuel Mamo, the Director of Advocacy and Campaigns, SCI, Nigeria. Gichuhi said that the COVID-19 could turn into a serious child rights crisis in Nigeria, as hundreds of thousands of the most vulnerable children could be exposed to a dangerous mix of extreme poverty, malnutrition and hunger as a result of the virus. According to her, government at all levels must scale up social protection measures like; provision of cash and food assistance for the most vulnerable children and families, to urgently mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. Gichuhi said: “The socio-economic impact of the pandemic will push many poor households to turn to desperate measures just to survive. Children could face increased risk of child labour or sexual exploitation or of child marriage, as families struggle to feed their families.” The organisation said it would work with all stakeholders towards better accessible social protection services to reach the most vulnerable people.” Gichuhi said that through existing social safety net programs, government should also provide immediate income and livelihood support to vulnerable families to reduce the risk of people taking desperate measures that would put children, particularly girls, at risk. She added, “We must act now and rapidly scale up support for children whose families’ income is insecure and live in fragile communities. There is a need for increased protection for children, especially girls, displaced children, and other vulnerable groups. Our collective efforts and sustainable actions in responding to the pandemic should ensure that no child is left behind, vulnerable or unprotected. Also, in the statement, Ibrahim Maharazu, Speaker, Katsina State Children’s Parliament, said: “The Coronavirus is threatening our right to participation, protection, education and healthy life. I can see a possible increase in child abuse as children from poor households might go to rich people in the community for food. They may be emotionally, physically or sexually exploited in exchange for food and financial support. There are people who take advantage of the poor families and the pandemic. This is very bad for children and it can have a long-lasting impact on them. The government should hold such perpetrators accountable.” On her part, Maryam Ahmed, Youth Ambassador, SCI Nigeria, said: “It is important that children and other marginalized groups are not excluded in Covid-19 response activities They should be safe, and also consulted on proper education and protection measures to be in place.” Purity Oriaifo, 14, Girl Champion, SCI Nigeria, said: “COVID-19 is a disaster. It has affected our ways of living and disrupted our routines – including school attendance and raising an income. I know children whose parents are petty traders who find it difficult to get proper food these days.” COVID-19 forces ‘120m African children’ out of school NGOs demand palliatives for millions of almajiri vulnerable to Covid-19 NGO trains 540 women, others to tackle gender-based violence