The Lagos State Government says it has discharged five patients comprising two males and three females, including a 10-year-old girl after testing negative twice consecutively to COVID-19 following their recovery after undergoing treatment. The state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who made the announcement while giving an update on COVID-19 on Sunday, said the discharged patients have been released to reunite with their families. This brings to 29, the total number of patients who have fully recovered and discharged from the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), located inside Mainland Hospital, at Yaba in the state. While he lamented that the State has recorded another death, bringing to two the total number of deaths from #COVID19 in Lagos state, he noted that there is a strong indication that the State is winning the battle against the disease which is ravaging several countries across the world. “But we need to remain steadfast and aggressive to curtail the spread. I need to reiterate that the result of tests conducted by our health workers on the recovered patients is a confirmation that they pose no threat to the community,” he said. He advised Lagosians against stigmatising the discharged patients, saying, such act could bring feelings of shame, hopelessness and despair. “We need to do all we can to support them in whatever form to get over the memories as soon as possible. “As the disease ravages countries all over the world, Lagos State will continue to do the needful in terms of responding to emergencies in an effort to ensure the health and wellbeing of our people. “We will do our best to make sure that other patients at the facility receive the best of care and attention so that they can return home to join their families and the community soonest,” he assured. Sanwo-Olu thanked the frontline health workers who are taking care of the patients, members of the Lagos State Health family and the Emergency Operation Centre for their kindness and flexibility in managing the patients and checking the spread of the disease. In order to contain the spread of the disease, he urged Lagosians to continue observing social distancing, remain indoors and shun the temptation to breach the presidential restriction that has been placed on the state so that the gains recorded so far are not eroded. “You should regularly and thoroughly wash your hands with soap and clean, running water and where water is not readily available, an alcohol-based hand sanitizer can be used,” he advised. Lagos announces death of 36-year-old COVID-19 patient More Nigerians recover from coronavirus COVID-19: Nigeria’s confirmed cases now 139