 The Federal Government has declared that with the COVID-19 pandemic, Nigeria is in a state of war against an invisible enemy. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation and chairman of the Presidential Taskforce Force on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, said this in Abuja yesterday at a briefing of the task force. Mustapha said: “The PTF appeals to Nigerians to take responsibility and play their roles properly. As you all know, we’re in a state of war against an invisible enemy. “Let me also advise that whenever you’re outside the confines of your homes, make sure it’s for very legitimate reasons covered by the exemption or within the hours relaxed for the purchase of basic items. Similarly, you should carry with you a valid means of identification.” He asked Nigerians to be civil in relating with the security agents enforcing the lockdown; and the security operatives, to equally be polite to “reduce friction on the roads even for those on essential duties and exempted to move.” Director-General, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Chikwe Ihekweazu, said about 7,000 Nigerians had so far been tested for the COVID-19 in the country. The Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, said the national testing capacity had been increased to 3,000 per day in the 13 molecular laboratories nationwide activated by the NCDC and that the target this week was to increase the national testing capacity further; with two more laboratories scheduled to come online in Borno and Sokoto states. He warned that private facilities must obtain accreditation to treat the virus and that practitioners engaging in unauthorised treatment of COVID-19 run the risk of being shut down for decontamination. The chairman of the task force and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, said it was time for Nigerian tailors to start producing locally made facemasks using local fabrics. “With such move, the risk of infecting others would be reduced,” he said. COVID-19: FG needs support from all sectors – SGF COVID-19 spread is slowing down in Nigeria - FG FG insists on Chinese doctors, says they will bring “scarce medical supplies”