The coronavirus pandemic has changed the mode of campaigns for the governorship election in Edo State slated for September this year. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had last month postponed four senatorial by-elections over the fast-spreading coronavirus disease. It, however, said the governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states scheduled for September and October 2020 respectively are not affected. Our correspondent reports that aspirants are now using the coronavirus pandemic to advance their ambitions. Before the spike in the pandemic, the dominant political parties in the state, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have already commenced underground politicking even before INEC lifted the ban on campaigns. But what is visible in the state at the moment is how to halt the spread of the virus as it has already recorded four cases though politicians have already incorporated the virus in their campaigns. Previously, it was a supremacy battle between Governor Godwin Obaseki and the national chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, that dominated the political space in the state. Two factions were created in the ruling party in the state. While Obaseki’s faction believes he has done well and deserves a second term, Oshiomhole’s faction believes he has failed party leaders, hence he should not be given the ticket. Following the development, Oshiomhole’s faction, mainly members of the Edo Peoples Movement (EMP), elected David Imose as its chairman while the Obaseki faction is chaired by Aslem Ojezua. The battle between the loyalists of the duo over the governor’s ticket which hitherto dominated the polity has disappeared. The slogan of four plus four (4+4) by Governor Obaseki’s loyalists as well as the slogan of four plus one (4+1) by Oshiomhole’s faction have also disappeared from their lips. Meanwhile, the aspirants who had indicated interest in contesting the governorship election under the APC, are Governor Godwin Obaseki, former Edo deputy governor, Pius Odubu, Chris Ogiewonmyi, Charles Airhiavbere and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Also, the aspirants who had indicated interest under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the moment are House of Representatives member, Ogbeide Ihama and Gideon Ikhine. Some of the aspirants have changed their campaign strategies to aiding the fight against coronavirus by embarking on the production of hand sanitiser with their picture and slogan printed on the label of the package. Some of the aspirants, including Pius Odubu, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, among others, have distributed hand sanitiser, face masks and food, which many see as political strategy. Ize-Iyamu has distributed sanitisers, food items and coronavirus awareness leaflets across the state. He said with the lockdown and restriction of movement of people across the state as part of measures to reduce the spread of the coronavirus, people are bound to be hungry, adding that they are ready to do whatever they could to get food to them. However, the factional chairman of the APC loyal to the national chairman of the party, Col. David Imuse, has advised Obaseki to assist the people instead of selling the medical products to them by allegedly acting as an agent of manufacturers. He said, “In a situation like this, government should urgently address the needs of the people by making use of security vote appropriated to it.” On its part, the state chapter of the PDP described the state government’s effort to halt the spread of the coronavirus pandemic as “lethargic.” A statement signed by the party’s publicity secretary, Chris Nehikhare, said Governor Obaseki has not demonstrated expected visibility, to give hope and direction as well as douse public apprehension, especially now that the public space is awash with uncertainties. A political commentator, Zonal Dada Ayokha, said the etiquette that accompanied the coronavirus which required a crowd of not more than 20, has been a barrier to the politicians, especially aspirants, in embarking on campaigns to woo party delegates. “Trust politicians, they quickly designed a way to play politics out of the pandemic. Suddenly, the politicians embarked on the production of designer hand sanitiser with their pictures conspicuously wrapped on the container. “Some of the aspirants have gone further with the provision of foodstuff to the vulnerable groups which may be extended to the party members as a way of stomach infrastructure,’’ he said. COVID-19: INEC postpones Bayelsa, Imo, Plateau by-elections Coronavirus: INEC postpones Bayelsa, Imo, Plateau senatorial bye-elections INEC suspends activities over coronavirus