Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State says the government will be enforcing the compulsory use of face masks by residents of the state, as efforts are intensified to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. The enforcement of the face mask will take effect from tomorrow morning when Gov Abiodun is expected to announce a relaxation of the lockdown, our correspondent gathered. The governor, who addressed residents of the state last Friday night, insisted that “a face mask has the benefits of preventing an afflicted person from infecting others and vice versa.” Saying that the quality or what the face mask was made of did not matter, the governor stressed what was important was that residents must “tie something on your face to keep you protected.” Meanwhile, the lockdown has been taking its toll on the state as roads and inner streets in the otherwise bustling city of Abeokuta, the state capital, were deserted on Saturday and yesterday following commencement of  the total lockdown, effective from Friday night. Our correspondent, who monitored the sit-at-home order over the weekend, reports that there was total compliance by residents of the state capital. Major streets, parks and markets were shut and the streets were desolate as combined security forces manned strategic areas to monitor and enforce compliance. Only personnel working on essential services were allowed movement. The Ogun State Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, led a team of security agencies in monitoring compliance in Abeokuta, Sagamu and other parts of the state. However, the level of compliance in other parts of Ogun State was partial. Our correspondent observed there were, however, business activities in Ifo and Sango-Ota, along the Abeokuta-Lagos expressway. The Area Commander of the Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE) in Ogun West Senatorial District, Adekunle Ajibade, told newsmen in Sango-Ota that two commercial drivers had been arrested in the area for defying the lockdown, saying they would soon be handed over to the appropriate authority. COVID-19: Cross River gives free food, orders compulsory use of mask Ogun to discharge coronavirus patient Ogun residents brace up for commencement of total lockdown