Lagos State Government has unveiled plans to provide 100,000 affordable homes in the next three years, through increased partnership with private investors and utilization of innovative building technology. The Commissioner for Housing, Mr. Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, disclosed this during the maiden edition of a Webinar organised to showcase Lagos First Green and Eco-friendly Estate in Idale, Badagry, a joint venture between the State Government and Echostone Nigeria. Describing the project as the first of its kind in the country, he assured that the state government would sustain its efforts to address the challenge of housing deficit in the state. He said, “In our journey towards the Greater Lagos of our dreams, one of the envisaged milestones of success in the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda, is the provision of affordable and decent homes for the ever-increasing population of the State. “We are responding to this challenge through the completion of on-going housing schemes, increased collaboration with private investors as well as strategizing on innovative technology to increase the speed of completion”, the commissioner assured. He said 492 Allotees were recently given keys to their homes at Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande Gardens in Igando, Alimosho Local Government. Fatai also disclosed that already, 360 home units were nearing completion for habitation at Igbogbo (11b) in Ikorodu Local Government area, adding that  “before the end of the year, our 744 homes housing schemes at Sangotedo, Odo Onosa /Ayandelu (660 units), and Egan Igando to mention a few will soon be made available. “This is in addition to the already completed and ready for delivery Peridot Parkland Estate, Idale in Badagry consisting of 252 housing units”, he added. In his remarks, the Director of Echostone Nigeria, Mr. Sammy Adigun pointed out that the project showcased an innovative technology which speeds up housing delivery, utilises lesser energy and generates minimal waste from site activities. Lagos State to complete 20,000 housing units by 2018 Why Lagos govt failed to make  impact in housing - Commissioner Gov Chime to commission Platinum Mortgage Bank office