The Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) has called on the federal government to adopt some policy measures that will help informal sector operators cope with  the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as it spreads further nationwide . The association, in its Quarterly Economic Report for  Q1, 2020, noted that while most COVID-19 related government aids and packages were targeted at formal businesses, it is the informal sector,  which engages the highest workforce in the country that suffering the greatest impact of the pandemic. It reported: “These informal workers suffer disproportionately when large-scale lockdowns are ordered, but at the same time, government aid packages are largely being targeted at formal businesses. “To ensure that these MSMEs continue to play their critical role in the economy especially employment generation, we recommend that economic policy trust for post COVID-19 must be designed to reach the informal sector that accounts for a larger percentage of the society”, ABCON added. The association also noted that the COVID-19 pandemic represented a wake-up call to the tiers of government on the need to support indigent people, pointing out that   “a major lesson to be learned from COVID-19 is the practicability of social security policy in Nigeria. “Government should be awakened to this prime realization of the need to support the indigent in the society not only during emergencies but under normal conditions. “This will consequently reduce a lot of social ills in the society and on the long run cost of crime prevention and management will reduce. This will encourage Government to realistically take accurate census and perfect the identification process in the country”, the association advocated. While commending the efforts of the various government to provide food materials to alleviate the impact of the lockdown on low-income earners, it also advised that establishment of call centres where members of the public can call to request for food support will go a long way  to ease the growing hunger in the country. ABCON also advised its members not to panic due to the negative consequences of the pandemic, stressing that there are also positive consequences for the BDC business. This is even as it also called on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to enhance the global competitiveness of BDCs through a phase-by-phase upgrade of their business model in line with the global trend. PDP asks Buhari to disband taskforce on COVID-19 COVID19: Why jobs and wages must be protected - NLC Job cuts loom as COVID-19 takes toll on private sector