The Kaduna State Government on Monday said the five new cases of COVID-19 recorded in the state as announced by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) were among Almajiri boys who were recently repatriated from Kano State. The Kaduna State Commissioner of Health, Dr. Amina Mohammed-Baloni, said the state now has a total of nine active cases having successfully treated and discharged six persons, including the State Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai. Dr. Baloni explained that contact tracing for the new cases have commenced so they can be monitored and tested if they meet the case definition. She said the new cases have been moved to the Infectious Disease Control Centre (IDCC) which is the state’s premier isolation centre for treatment, assuring that; “our medical professionals are treating them with the same high standards and we wish all our active nine cases speedy recovery.” The Commissioner explained that testing capacity for the state has increased with two testing labs, including a private lab that has been accredited by the NCDC and recently the Ahmadu Bello University which has also been accredited by the NCDC to conduct COVID-19 testing. Kaduna State Government, had on Sunday, extended the quarantine orders being enforced in the state for another 30 days and reduced the two-day window period for residents to stock up food to one day effective from Sunday, April 26, 2020. Daily Trust reports that the State Government had, on March 26, 2020, announced a 24-hour curfew on the state and later relaxed it, giving a two-day window period for residents to stock up food items every Tuesday and Wednesday. However, Governor Nasir El-Rufai, on Sunday night, said the decision to extend the curfew followed a recommendation by the State Standing Committee on COVID-19, which is chaired by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Hadiza Balarabe. El-Rufai said with COVID-19 cases rising rapidly in neighbouring states and the FCT, and with strong evidence of interstate travel being a major means of spreading the virus, the Standing Committee’s evaluation is that measures to protect Kaduna State residents require further strengthening and more vigorous enforcement. Coronavirus: Kano confirms index case COVID-19: Kaduna has two testing centres – Commissioner COVID-19: Only 169 ventilators in 16 states