Since the restriction of movement was enforced in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to check the spread of the coronavirus, workers on the frontlines have not been faring well, especially in the area of transportation. The lockdown was imposed for a period of 14 days by President Muhammadu Buhari and it commenced on Monday, March 30, 2020, in a bid to curb the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the country. But workers on essential duties were exempted. Some essential workers who spoke with our reporter said the lockdown has complicated their lives and made it difficult for them to carry out their duties efficiently. They said the restrictions placed on commercial taxis, food vendors, petty traders and other businesses have made it difficult to get transportation to and from work, as well as food to eat when at work. A healthcare worker, Johnson Umeh, said transportation has been very difficult because commercial vehicles have suspended operation. “It is very difficult to get to office. Sometimes, it is not even about going to the office but going back home. The city is quiet and there are no commercial taxis. You have to stand for hours before you can get someone who will even park and listen to you,” he added. On his part, Iliyasu Abubakar, who works at a filling station lamented that no arrangement was made to transport essential workers during the lockdown, which according to him, has exposed them to avoidable suffering. “Most of us that don’t have means of transportation have to stand and wait for long before we get other essential workers who are mobile to carry us. Today I stood for more than three hours and I couldn’t get a car,” he said. Sarah Christopher, on her part, said “as an essential worker, if you do not carry your food along, you will starve because even the petty food vendors are not coming. Work under the lockdown is very difficult.” City News reporter also observed that more essential workers were stranded as enforcement of the lockdown gets stiffer at MOPOL Junction, Nyanya, along Abuja-Keffi Road, and at Karu Bridge, to ensure that only essential workers are allowed into the FCT. Daily Trust also observed that the streets of the FCT have been deserted as only a few people can be sighted trekking on the walkways while security vehicles patrol.  COVID-19: FG releases guideline on lockdown Policy COVID-19: Why Buhari locked down FCT, Lagos, Ogun COVID-19: Top things President Buhari said in his special broadcast