The US Embassy has issued tough guidelines highlighting tough time for potential evacuees who might be planning an evacuation flight for them and their family in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. It comes as the number of confirmed infections in the US rise to 337,773, with 9.649 deaths as at April 6. The embassy says evacuees will have to pay the cost of evacuation flights or sign a promissory noted to repay the full cost of the seat for a one-way flight to a single destination in the US, according to a release it published on its website. From there on, travellers will organise and fund any travel to their final destination, their living expense while in the US and any return travel to Nigeria. Evacuation flights can cost between $1,300 and $2,400 per person. Evacuees will also pay for their health care for costs that are not covered by insurance. But the embassy warns the US health care system in many localities are “already overwhelmed”. Following the closure or ongoing closure of many hotels, it warns evacuee to secure accommodation before they travel. And travellers may not be able to return to Nigeria, since airports have closed to all commercial international flights. “If you evacuate to the United States, it is unlikely you will be able to return to Nigeria until the Nigerian government reopens the airports and commercial flights resume,” the embassy said. Pets, both “those that travel in cargo and those that travel in cabin” will not be permitted on evacuation flights. The flights will also observe strict restriction on number of pieces of checked and caryyy-on luggage as well size and weight. “There are shortages of many basic supplies across the United States, including toilet paper and canned and frozen foods.  Many stores, restaurants, and businesses are closed,” it said. “Most schools in the United States are closed and there are very few childcare options available at this time.” And for unaccompanied minors evacuating to the US must be met at the Washington-Dulles International Airport by a responsible adult. “Domestic travel in the United States may have limited options to allow that adult to travel to the airport to meet the minor,” the advisory said. Covid-19: Evacuation of Americans stalled as 4,000 British citizens seek to leave Nigeria COVID-19: Germany, France, Israel evacuate 911 nationals Covid 19: Evacuation of Americans stalled over flight permit