No fewer than 10,000 residents of Lagos state would get food ration daily as part of efforts aimed at cushioning the effects of the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the state. Rendeavour, the developer of the Alaro City project and one of Africa’s private city builders, disclosed this in a statement made available to newsmen in Lagos on Saturday. Daily Trust reports that the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, had on Tuesday announced the commencement of a daily food kitchen programme targeted at feeding 100,000 youths across the state. Taking a cue from the Lagos government’s daily food programme, Rendeavour said it will work closely with Alaro City and selected non-governmental organisations to kickstart the initiative with focus on their host community, Epe and on Lagos Island. Stephen Jennings, Founder and Group CEO of Rendeavour, commended Governor Sanwo-Olu for his leadership and laudable efforts at tackling the spread of the virus in Lagos state, saying the organisation will continue to support the government until the pandemic is curbed in the state. “Governor Sanwo-Olu has led commendably from the front in the battle against COVID-19 in Lagos, to the admiration of all, including the international community,” he said. It will be recalled that Rendeavour and Alaro City had since penultimate week began the distribution of relief items to residents of Epe in the state. “The company is also rolling out a civic education campaign aimed at boosting awareness on effective ways of combating the pandemic. “Additionally, top executives of the organisation have partnered with the Lagos branch of a global business leadership community in funding the construction of a COVID-19 treatment/isolation centre in Lagos. “Alaro City, a partnership between the Lagos State Government and Rendeavour, is planned as a 2,000-hectare mixed-income, city-scale development with industrial and logistics locations, complemented by offices, homes, schools, healthcare facilities, hotels, entertainment and 150 hectares (370 acres) of parks and open spaces. “Over 20 businesses are designing or building their facilities in the city; and 5km of initial road networks and a modular 50MVA power plant are under construction,” the statement added. Reacting to the initiative, the state’s Commissioner for Agriculture, Gbolahan Lawal, said: “The initiative to feed 10,000 people daily by Rendeavour and Alaro City is a laudable one and perfectly keys in with the objectives of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s COVID-19 Emergency Food Response. We welcome all partnerships on this quest to ensure that those in need are fed during this period.” Also, Dr. Mrs. Lola Akande, the Lagos Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, commended Rendeavour for the initiative. “It is heart-warming to see our partners in the private sector rise up to the occasion and key into the state government’s programmes aimed at battling the coronavirus pandemic,” she said. She added: “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has, once again, shown leadership worthy of emulation and we are happy that responsible corporate players like Rendeavour and Alaro City are partnering with us.” Don’t subject your children to slavery, abuse – Lagos First Lady Ambode, Rendeavour launch Nigeria’s largest modern satellite city Ongoing constructions at Alaro City excite investors