FBN Holdings Plc has notified the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) of on-going discussions with its partner, Sanlam Emerging Markets, owners of 35% equity in FBN Insurance Limited, on plans to fully divest its 65% equity from the risk underwriting company. A formal notice sent to the Exchange and signed by the Company Secretary, Seye Kosoko, yesterday, indicated that the FBNH divestment move was in line with the “Group’s strategic objectives” adding that they are currently engaging the regulators for the necessary approvals. FBN Holdings, however, assured the Exchange that further announcement will be made if the transaction is concluded. The proposed divestment when completed is expected to lead to the transfer of FBN Holdings’ 65% stake in FBN Insurance Limited to Sanlam. The notification to the NSE is one of the statutory steps required of listed companies when considering a market-sensitive decision or transaction. In deference to Rule 17.5 of the Rule Book of the Exchange 2015, FBN Holdings first notified the market of the development in the Directors’ Report Section of its Audited Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2019 which was released to the Exchange on Monday 6, April 2016. For FYE December 31, 2019, the company reported a Profit Before Tax (PBT) of N84billion representing a growth of 31% over 2018 PBT of N64billion. Profit After Taxation (PAT) at N74billion was a growth of 27% over N58billion reported for 2018. The company’s Board of Directors has also recommended the payment of the sum of N13.64billion (38kobo/share) as dividend to its shareholders, representing a growth of 46% over prior year dividend. The proposed divestment will unlock significant value to leverage the Group’s strength in its core business for which it is renowned. FBN Insurance was founded as a Life Insurer in 2010 with a vision to be Nigeria’s first choice in risk underwriting, wealth preservation and financial security. Today, the company has grown to become one of the best insurance companies with a subsidiary that undertakes general insurance business offering a broad range of investment and risk underwriting products.  Sanlam Group has been associated with and is the other Shareholder of FBN Insurance Plc since it was established in 2010. Sanlam with over 100years experience and expertise in Insurance, Asset Management, Wealth Management and Investments is one of the leading Insurance companies in Africa. NSE delists Oasis Insurance as FBN Insurance takeover Shareholders oppose Oasis acquisition by FBN Insurance Naira devaluation boosts equity market value by N163bn