The University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, the flagship isolation centre in Abuja, said yesterday that two patients are ready to be discharged. The centre had earlier discharged seven patients. So far, the Federal Capital Territory has recorded 54 cases. The Chief Medical Director, Prof. Bissalla Ahmed Ekele, who spoke on Thursday when the Managing Director of Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited (MESL), Engr. Lamu Audu, handed over donations of medical equipment to the management of the hospital. said the success recorded was due to interventions from MESL, NNPC and the FCT, which boosted operations at the hospital. “As I speak to you, we discharged seven of the patients in good health two days ago and I have just been informed by the team lead that two more patients are ready to be discharged. That is the impact of the interventions you have brought for us,” Ekele said. The UATH head, who said MESL is the first private firm to bring interventions, lamented the lack of Personal Protective Equipment and other tools to enable workers discharge their duties at the COVID-19 isolation centre. The Managing Director of MESL, Engr. Audu, said the firm contacted the hospital to know the immediate needs and was given a list of critical medical items. “We were able to come up with a list of these items which we will formally hand over to you. On behalf of the board and management of MESL, please accept our token in terms of equipment and we believe they will be very valuable in the course of your duties,” Audu said. MESL which operates the Kainji and Jebba Hydropower plants in Niger State is supporting the fight against the coronavirus pandemic by providing ventilators and other medical supplies worth over N500 million to isolation centres at AUTH, Niger and other states. Part of the fund was used to provide critical equipment at the AUTH isolation centre. They include; X-ray machines, digitizers, PPE, CT scans, and a 350KVA generator. Nine rooms at the newly constructed Trauma Centre within the hospital were furnished to accommodate doctors and nurses who are providing medical services to Covid-19 patients and are unable to return home due to isolation requirements. MESL will also pay the medical staff hotel bills they incurred before they moved into the new accommodation. FG to discharge 2 COVID-19 patients in Abuja today + VIDEO Firm donates N500m ventilators, others to isolation centres Hospitals paralysed as doctors continue strike nationwide