The Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has revealed that an error has been discovered in it’s 3rd April, Covid-19 report. The centre had disclosed on Friday that there were 26 new cases of the Covid-19 pandemic in Nigeria. However, a correction to these figures has been made on the centres twitter handle @NCDCgov: “CORRECTION 1/4 On 3rd of April 2020, we reported 26 new cases of #COVID19 in Nigeria. An error has been discovered in this report as follows:
There were 25 new cases of #COVID19 in Nigeria. The 26th case was a repeat result of a previously confirmed case and NOT a new case” “Of the 25 new cases reported, 1 case was inadvertently reported from Osun state. This case was from OYO STATE The correct breakdown is as follows: Lagos- 11 Osun- 6 FCT- 3 Edo- 3 Ondo- 1 Oyo- ” the post read. As at 10:30 pm 3rd April, there are 209 confirmed cases with 25 discharged patients and 4 deaths The NCDC regretted the error in the reports it published and promised to remain committed to ensuring transparency and accurate reporting of infectious disease cases in Nigeria Meanwhile the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) has pleaded with the Federal Government not to get Chinese medical team involved in the fight against Coronavirus in the country. Mr Chris Isiguzo, NUJ President in a statement on Saturday, said the union was alarmed by the decision of the Federal Government to bring Chinese Medical doctors into Nigeria to fight COVID-19. According to Isiguzo, the Nigerian medical doctors are doing exceptionally well in fighting the outbreak. “We caution that it will be counter productive to bring in Chinese doctors. We reject a situation where Nigerians will be used as a Guinea pig for any experiment. “Thus, it is pertinent to plead with the Federal Government to stop this Medical Team from coming to Nigeria because of the Italian example where there was an inexplicable spike in COVID-19 related deaths when the Chinese doctors arrived the country. “The Federal Government should as a matter of urgent concern investigate the allegation, that what is happening today is associated with the launch of the 5G communication network as Nigerians are becoming more agitated. “We urge the Federal Government to be more proactive in dealing with these emerging issues because any mistake made will be catastrophic,” Isiguzo submitted. Nigeria announces 12 new cases of COVID-19, total now 151 Nigeria Covid-19 infections rise to 190 Benue governor, Ortom gets COVID-19 test result