The International Air Transport Association (IATA) on Tuesday released an updated analysis showing that the COVID-19 crisis will cause airlines’ passenger revenues to drop by $314 billion in 2020, a 55% decline compared to 2019. IATA had on 24 March this year estimated $252 billion in lost revenues (-44% vs. 2019) in a scenario with severe travel restrictions lasting three months. According to the association, the updated figures reflect a significant deepening of the crisis since then, and reflect the following parameters. These include severe domestic restrictions lasting three months; some restrictions on international travel extending beyond the initial three months; worldwide severe impact, including Africa and Latin America (which had a small presence of the disease and were expected to be less impacted in the March analysis). The association representing some 290 airlines predicted that full-year passenger demand (domestic and international) is expected to be down 48% compared to 2019.  It said the two main elements driving forecast are Overall Economic Developments and Travel Restrictions, suggesting that the world is heading for recession.  The report stated: “The economic shock of the COVID-19 crisis is expected to be at its most severe in Q2 when GDP is expected to shrink by 6% (by comparison, GDP shrank by 2% at the height of the Global Financial Crisis). Passenger demand closely follows GDP progression. “The impact of reduced economic activity in Q2 alone would result in an 8% fall in passenger demand in the third quarter”, the association projected. According to global aviation body, travel restrictions would “deepen the impact of recession on demand for travel. The most severe impact is expected to be in Q2.” “As of early April, the number of flights globally was down 80% compared to 2019 in large part owing to severe travel restrictions imposed by governments to fight the spread of the virus.  The association, however, urged governments to include aviation in stabilization packages, saying airlines are at the core of a value chain that supports some 65.5 million jobs worldwide. Each of the 2.7 million airline jobs supports 24 more jobs in the economy. IATA’s Director General and CEO, Alexandre de Juniac said, “The industry’s outlook grows darker by the day. The scale of the crisis makes a sharp V-shaped recovery unlikely. Realistically, it will be a U-shaped recovery with domestic travel coming back faster than the international market.” “We could see more than half of passenger revenues disappear. That would be a $314 billion hit. Several governments have stepped up with new or expanded financial relief measures but the  situation remains critical. Airlines could burn through $61 billion of cash reserves in the second quarter alone. “That puts at risk 25 million jobs dependent on aviation. And without urgent relief, many airlines will not survive to lead the economic recovery”, he added.  COVID-19:  IATA forecasts $39bn loss for airlines in Q2, 2020 When Nigeria’s struggling airlines catch the virus COVID-19: US travel ban to affect over 125,000 travelers daily – IATA