Kano deputy governor Nasiru Gawuna, two commissioners and Governor Abdullahi Ganduje’s daughter have gone into self-isolation after a co-member on the State Task Force on COVID-19 they work with got infected with the virus. All six are members of the state task force on COVID-19, chaired by deputy governor Gawuna. They include Amina Umar Ganduje, health commissioner Aminu Tsanyawa, environment commissioner Kabiru Getso, and Imam Wada, secretary of the committee. Daily Trust gathered that their decision to go into self-isolation followed the discovery of the status of the co-chair an of the committee, Professor Abdulrazaq Garba Habibu, whose result indicated that he tested positive for COVID-19. A reliable source within the government, “You know, since they have mingled with the co-chair, whose status is now known, the best for the rest members of the committee is to go for self-isolation. Their specimen have been taken for test, but their results are not out for them to know their status. “We are praying that the results would turn negative. But I can confirm to you that virtually all members of the Kano task force on COVID-19 are now in self-isolation and are waiting for their results,” the source said. Daily Trust gathered that the result for the co-chair of the committee, a professor of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, was released on Wednesday and he had since been admitted at the state isolation centre at Kwanar Dawaki. “It is true that Professor Habib was tested positive for COVID-19. He has already been admitted at the isolation centre for comprehensive management. “You know Prof is actively involved in rapid response to all confirmed cases in Kano. So, probably he contracted the virus during clinical services,” the source, who preferred anonymity, confided in Daily Trust. It could be recalled that Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje inaugurated the taskforce on 21st March, 2020 with core mandate to curtail spread of COVID-19 pandemic in Kano as well as rendering effective management of cases. According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Kano State as at 10:20pm on Thursday was 21.  Before testing positive for COVID-19, Kyari mingled with govs, ministers, others Coronavirus: Kano confirms index case COVID-19: Status of 20 Nigerian governors unknown