Child death rate in Nigeria has decreased by 16 percent since 2010. This is contained in the 14th annual report of the US President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI), a statement from the US Embassy in Abuja said yesterday. During the same period, malaria prevalence also decreased from 42 percent in 2010 to 23 percent, according to Nigeria’s most recent National Demographic and Health Survey. The statement said PMI works with partner countries to benefit more than 400 million people across sub-Saharan Africa and parts of Southeast Asia, and the initiative is led by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and implemented together with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). It noted that the use of long-lasting Insecticide-treated bed Nets (LLIN) was one of the most effective measures used to prevent malaria. “Since 2010, PMI has supported Nigeria in the distribution of more than 100 million bed nets, which are now in use in 43 percent of Nigerian households, up from just 23 percent at the start of the initiative” the statement said. “Malaria is one of the leading causes of death among children in Nigeria,” said USAID Mission Director Stephen M. Haykin, who oversees PMI activities in collaboration with CDC leadership. “We are pleased to see our partnership with Nigeria has had clear success, and will continue this support with proven methods of prevention and treatment against malaria,” he added. It noted that in 2019, PMI invested $70 million (N25.2 billion) to help Nigeria fight malaria, distributed more than 6.9 million insecticide-treated mosquito nets, distributed 8.6 million doses of prophylaxis to pregnant women, 1.6 million doses to children during the rainy season, and 24 million doses of treatment at the facility and community levels. The statement also noted that an additional 15.3 million rapid malaria tests were provided to help health workers properly diagnose and treat patients. U.S. salutes FG, health champions’ efforts to end malaria in Nigeria U.S. salutes Nigeria’s efforts to end malaria WHO, partners inaugurate new country-led response on malaria