Owners of private health facilities in Nigeria, under the aegis of the Guild of Medical Directors, say their members are prone to grave dangers of COVID-19 as some patients disguise their travel history to avoid stigmatization. The president of the guild, Prof. Femi Babalola in a statement yesterday, said the guild had lost three members not because they necessarily wanted to treat COVID-19 patients, but because they inevitably came across them in the course of their duties. He named the deceased doctors as Aliyu Yakubu, proprietor of Daura Clinics and Medical Centre in Katsina State; Dominic Essien of San Dominic Hospital in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State and Emeka Chugbo, a renowned obstetrician who died recently in Lagos . The guild called on the Federal Government to support private hospitals with protection kits to enable them attend to patients during the lockdown, and rapid serological test kits to facilitate quick identification of patients with COVID-19. “Private hospitals account for not less than 70% of consultations in the country. It’s therefore inevitable that some patients with the disease will turn up in private hospitals. Unfortunately, many of them will be asymptomatic carriers of the disease. The instructions we have been given by the ministry of health is to refer such cases as soon as we identify them, or suspect them to be COVID-19 cases. But usually before a patient can be identified as a COVID-19 suspect, some interaction would inevitably have occurred with such patients, in the form of history taking and examination. “Also, if a doctor, following this interaction, suspects that a patient might be a COVID -19 case, there is invariably a time lag between the time of suspicion and the time when NCDC officials arrive to take samples for confirmatory testing. This time lag varies from a few hours to never showing up at all, as we have experienced in several cases. After the samples are taken, the patients are to be kept in the private facility in a ‘safe isolation unit’, pending the time when the results would come back, usually not less than 48 hours.” COVID-19: Ministers wear masks for briefings, healthcare personnel work without them COVID-19: FG seeks National Assembly’s approval for N500bn intervention fund How patients die daily in Lagos due to doctors strike