The Lagos State police command says it has arrested a medical doctor, whose name it wouldn’t disclose, and a policeman for allegedly abusing exemptions to the movement restriction order the federal government issued for Lagos State. President Mohammadu Buhari had, in a nationwide broadcast on Sunday evening, issued the 14-day movement restriction order for Lagos and Ogun states, as well as the Federal Capital Territory as government battles to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. Professionals like health officials, military personnel, policemen, journalists and private security operatives on essential duties were, however, exempted from the order. But the police said some professionals have been abusing the exemption window. According to the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, a medical doctor and a police Inspector intercepted by a special task force set up by the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, were discovered to be using the exemption excuse to run commercial bus services in the Lagos metropolis. Elkana said that the clarification became necessary following a statement credited to the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), which accused the police of restricting the movement of its members. The police PRO described the NMA statement as “completely false and misleading”, and urged members of the general public to disregard it. He said that though the police were fully conscious that certain establishments were exempted from the order, it was still monitoring compliance to check abuse. Elkana said, “Police personnel deployed for the enforcement exercise were fully briefed by the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu. Every police station was issued copies of the presidential directives and extant laws for guidance. The CP charged police officers to be professional. He urged them to carry out their assignment with compassion and respect the rights of citizens. “The Commissioner of Police personally went round to monitor compliance across the state. Reports received from Area Commanders, Divisional Police Officers and officers from the field showed a high level of compliance. Few cases recorded have to do with some individuals intercepted on the roads who claimed to fall under the categories of persons exempted but turned out to be false. Some could not provide any means of identification, while others who actually belong to the professions mentioned were hiding under the cover to carry out their private businesses. “An example is a medical doctor serving in another state but on annual leave in Lagos State, who was intercepted with three passengers in his car going on a private mission. A police Inspector was also arrested with two passengers in his vehicle going on a private assignment, in total violation of the restriction order. “It is pertinent to state that the exemption given to certain categories of persons is not absolute. The order states that, ‘Although these establishments are exempted, access will be restricted and monitored’. To ensure that persons who are not on essential duties are restricted, the Command insists that apart from the occupational ID Card, there must also be a document to prove that the person is on duty.” COVID-19: Why Buhari locked down FCT, Lagos, Ogun COVID-19: Top things President Buhari said in his special broadcast Things we learned from Buhari's coronavirus speech