The management of the Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company (KEDC) said it had suspended electricity disconnections of consumers indefinitely until the coronavirus pandemic is over. The company’s Head of Corporate Communication, Abdulazeez Abdullahi, made the disclosure on Monday during the donation of relief materials to the Kaduna State Government by the DisCo. This is even as he hinted that the company was committing N30 million to food donation to vulnerable people its area of franchise covering Kaduna, Zamfara, Sokoto and Kebbi states. According to him, the gesture is aimed at supporting government’s efforts at providing palliatives to residents of the state in order to cushion the effect of the COVID-19 lockdown. While appreciating the efforts the government has put in place to control the spread of the virus, he said, “We believe that as a responsible corporate organisation, we also have a role to play in supporting this effort and that is why we are making this token donation of 500 bags of rice, 400 bags of Semovita, 100 bags of noodles and 100 cartons of vegetable oil. “We hope that this will be judiciously given to those who deserve it and we hope that we will be able to combat this pandemic in the soonest possible time.” He expressed the company support for the state government’s call for people to observe the necessary health protocols in order to collectively defeat the virus. The spokesman assured Kaduna residents of stable power supply throughout the lockdown. Abdullahi explained: “We have during the lockdown provided as much as possible adequate power supply to our customers so that they can cope with the stay at home order of the state government except in situation that are beyond our control including forced maintenance and some faults that many have arisen out of our control.” Receiving the items, the Permanent Secretary General Services, Office of the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mohammed Bashir Umar, said the state government had released over N500 million to provide palliatives for residents. He, however, pointed out that government cannot do it alone hence its call to corporate organisations and individuals to assist in providing materials and food items to the poor and vulnerable people in this period of national need. Kaduna Electric suspends disconnection over COVID-19 Lagos govt gets 1,000 boxes of assorted food items Plateau community protests ‘unjust’ electricity disconnection