Three members of the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) serving in Oyo State have invented a semi-automated hand washing device, with a soap dispenser and an underground draining system. The corps members are; Afolabi Victor Oladayo, Ogunmoye Victor Itunuoluwa and Adeyanju Adeyemi Olamide. They worked in conjunction with the NYSC state coordinator, Mrs Grace Ogbuogede. Ogbuogede, who inaugurated the project at the state headquarters of the NYSC in Ibadan yesterday, said it was meant to be a complete automated hand washing machine, but the corps members were unable to get materials to complete the machine because of the lockdown in the country. According to her, when the Director-General of the scheme sent the prototype of the machine to the state coordinators through a WhatsApp group to ensure its production and installation in all NYSC offices across the country, it was only the three corps members that accepted to invent it. She commended the Corps members for their “commitment, patriotism and support” for the NYSC, especially in Oyo State. Ogbuogede said, “I want to first of all commend our Director-General for his support. He communicated to all the state coordinators through the Whatsapp group to think outside the box in containing the spread of the coronavirus. Fortunately for us in Oyo State, these three Corps members took it upon themselves and invented it. They started last week and they have completed it now. “It is a semi-automated hand wash machine. Our plan was to make it fully automated but we could not do it because of the lockdown. We could not get materials for the full automated and that was why we made it semi-automated,” she said. One of the corps members, Oladayo, speaking on behalf of the two others, said the rationale behind the invention was to ensure a containment of the coronavirus scourge in the country. He said, “this machine is operated with the leg and not the hand to avoid a spread of the virus. We discovered that when you touched a surface of anything and someone else touched it again, you may contact the virus. But when you use your leg, you cannot use the leg to touch any of your sense organs.” I always wanted to meet the president - NYSC award winner Redeployments threaten NYSC scheme NYSC deploys 2000 Batch B Corps members to Bauchi