The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) has directed the Nigeria LNG Ltd (NLNG) to evaluate the capabilities of the beneficiaries of Project 100 programme and engage them, if qualified, in the execution of its Train 7 project and other related services. The Board conveyed this in a recent letter titled ‘Introducing Project 100 Beneficiaries for Consideration on NLNG Projects’ signed by its Executive Secretary, Engr. Simbi Wabote to the Managing Director of NLNG, Mr. Tony Attah. According to the Executive Secretary, Project 100 was conceived to identify 100 start-up oil and gas and support them through special interventions to facilitate their incubation, maturation and growth into world class service companies. He said the programme was introduced as part of the Board’s mandate to develop the capacity of the local supply chain for effective and efficient service delivery in the oil and gas industry. According to the NCDMB boss, the Board has been providing these supports to the companies and is committed to continue as well as offer other institutional assistance to aid the companies’ maturation into world class status. As part of its access to market intervention, Wabote confirmed that NCDMB will regularly recommend Project 100 Companies to projectpromoters and big EPCIcompanies, for them to independently assess their capabilities for the purpose of creating business opportunities. Specifically, on this particular instance, he pointed out that the NLNG was expected to conduct its own due diligence on the capacity of these companies and based on their proven capacities engage them for the Train 7 project. Wabote also urged NLNG management to note that the involvement Project 100 Companies in its supply chain will be a major boost in the quest to collectively support local companies to become large enterprises and deepen Local Content practice in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry. The areas of competencies of the Project 100 Beneficiaries include exploration, subsurface and seismic services, fabrication and construction, FEED, detailed and other engineering services, marine services and operations and inspection, testing and certification. Other key areas of competencies are inspection, hook up and commissioning, material and procurement, project management and consulting, well drilling services and petroleum technology as well as maintenance and modification, among others. Construction of $4.3bn NLNG Train 7 to take place in Nigeria – FG NCDMB, NLNG to sign $1bn Train 7 Nigerian Content Plan Content board, NLNG to sign $1bn Train 7 Nigerian Content Plan