Tulsi Chanrai Foundation (TCF), an Indian charity organization based in Abuja, has donated food stuff and groceries to support the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) palliative scheme for the vulnerable. The foundation donated 1000 cartons of noodles, 20,000 sachets of milk and 1000 bars of medicated soap to support the FCTA palliatives scheme, at the weekend. The Chief Executive Officer of the TCF, Mr. Shravan Kumar, said the donation was to support the FCTA in its efforts to cushion the effect of the stay-at-home order on the lives of those at the bottom of the social pyramid. Kumar also stated that the firm under the leadership of its chairman, Mr. Jagdish Chanrai, has developed a support package aimed at ensuring an efficient, effective and impactful response to the coronavirus pandemic, stressing that the support packs would be distributed with the support of the FCT Administration’s personnel. “Controlling the COVID-19 pandemic is a mammoth task and involves some painful decisions. Tulsi Chanrai Foundation is doing its bit to support the nation at this time of great need and offered help to the FCT Administration to succeed in fighting back the threat of the coronavirus pandemic. “We at TCF are supporting food distribution, increasing awareness via printed handouts on how to control the spread of the disease and providing medicated soap to vulnerable households adversely affected by the measures instituted to control further spread of the pandemic in and around the Federal Capital Territory,” he said. He also revealed that each carton of noodle contains a pack of milk and soap, adding that these interventions are critical change agents as they give the vulnerable a sense of self-control over their lives. While receiving the items on behalf of the Administration, FCT Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, noted that over two decades of service, Tulsi Chanrai Foundation has demonstrated social responsibility to the Nigeria populace, especially in the areas of primary healthcare, safe drinking water and eye care services. Meanwhile, members of the Soroptimist International (SI), Gwarimpa, Abuja, have sensitised and donated sanitizers, face masks and food items to residents of Galadima community. The President of the SI, Gwarimpa, Magdalene Ottih, who led other members to the community at the weekend, said the donation was to cushion the effects of the lockdown on the residents. “We came to help the poor and the needy with some foodstuff. A lot of them are on a daily paid job and with the lockdown some of them are hungry and we said we should help with food that can last them for one week,” she said. She said the residents were also enlightened on the need for personal hygiene and social distancing. UBA donates N500m to FCTA for fight against COVID-19 COVID-19: FCT Minister tasks political leaders on community sensitization NGO distributes food, medical consumables to Kogi communities