Two days after the Federal Government announced a slash in fuel pump price from N125 per litre to 123.50 per litre, investigations by Daily Trust yesterday showed that marketers were still dispensing fuel at the old N125/litre in most stations nationwide. The Executive Secretary of the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA), Abdulkadir Saidu, who announced the new pump price on Tuesday, said all retail outlets should start selling at the new price effective from Wednesday. However, our investigations on the downstream pricing regime in Lagos, Ondo, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Kano and other major cities showed that most independent marketers and their major counterparts were not ready to adjust their pumps too soon, with many of them claiming that the stocks in their tanks were purchased at the old pricing template. A motorist in Akure, Ondo State, Mr. Julius Olanisimi, told our correspondent that he bought fuel yesterday “at the former N125 per litre from one of the petrol stations along Oke- Aro road and this is the price people are buying in most parts of the state.” In Lagos, a motorist living at Abule-Egba axis of the metropolis, who simply identified himself as Sola, told our correspondent during a telephone chat that “nothing has changed o. We are still buying at the old price. We are yet to see the petrol attendants selling at the new price” In the FCT, most motorists spoken with confirmed that the marketers were not complying at all, with one of them who simply identified himself as Hussein, saying that “I bought fuel this morning at N125 per litre in one of the stations along the airport road. The guy said they were selling at the price because they still had the old stock.” According to a woman spoken with in a telephone chat in Kano, Hajia Garba, the old price still subsists in most fuel stations. She, however, expressed the hope that the enforcement team from DPR “will ensure that these marketers comply with the government’s directive as from tomorrow based on what I am hearing” Daily Trust findings confirmed the position of the marketers that they won’t comply with the latest price due to its likely disruptive implications for the downstream business generally. In a telephone interview with Daily Trust on Wednesday, the Executive Secretary of Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) Clement Isiong, said their members were taken aback when government announced the new price of N123.5k. Isiong said marketers had yet to recover from the sudden reduction from N145 to N125 two weeks ago when the latest reduction hit them. “We are still confused, sincerely. We need good clarification from the government on why they took this decision to suddenly reduce to N123.5 when our members have stocked the products to sell at N125. “The market is becoming unpredictable and our members are losing money. We cannot continue like this. If this continues, there could be scarcity’’, he said In the same vein, the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association (IPMAN), Kano Chapter chairman, Alhaji Bashir Danmallam, said its members would not comply with the new pump price adjustment until the old stock is exhausted. He told journalists that IPMAN had directed members to continue to sell fuel at N125 per litre, adding that until “the last drop of old stock is exhausted, no one will stock in debt to dispense at N123.50”. FG revises fuel pump price to 123.50/litre N125 fuel price: Partial compliance as marketers groan We can't sell petrol at N123.50 per litre, IPMAN tells FG