The Lagos State Police Command has arrested two men for allegedly defiling two under-aged girls. The first case involved Christian Chikeze, a resident of Ikorodu who was arrested for allegedly raping a nine-year-old girl, said to have been kept in the custody of his neighbour. Chikeze, according to the police, allegedly lured the girl into his apartment, where he had unlawful carnal knowledge of her. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said that on March 30, 2020 at about midnight, a lady reported at the Ikorodu police station that on March 29, 2020 at about 7.10pm, she left her nine-year-old daughter in the care of a neighbour, who she identified as Mercy, and left for a hospital. Elkana said that the complainant further alleged that on getting back from the hospital, she discovered that her daughter was no longer in the custody of Mercy. “She narrated that on searching for her daughter, she saw her with Christian Chikezie coming out of his house.  On enquiry, her daughter told her that Chikeze had sexual intercourse with her. “The girl was taken to a hospital for medical treatment and forensic examination, while the suspect was later arrested by detectives from the Juvenile Welfare Centre, Ikorodu police station. Investigation is ongoing,” the PPRO said. Elkana further said that the second incident, which occurred at Okokomaiko, involved a security guard. He said that operatives from the Okokomaiko police station arrested a security guard, Dako Aaron, 52, of Olanrewaju Street, Okokomaiko, for having sexual intercourse with a 13-year-old girl (name withheld). “He was alleged to have dragged the survivor into his security post on two different occasions to sexually abuse her. The first incident occurred on February 2, 2020, while the second one occurred on March 12, 2020. From records available, the suspect is a habitual paedophile. He was last charged to court on February 22, 2017 for raping a minor. “The suspects will be charged to court at the end of investigation. The Commissioner of Police Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, uses this medium to advise parents to beware of paedophiles preying on their children during the lockdown period’’, he said. …Another arrested for allegedly molesting teenager … Another in police net for raping 15-yr-old daughter, friends When teachers prey on their students