The Secretary to the Government of the Federation and chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, says the next phase for the country in the fight against COVID-19 is a very serious one. According to him, it is the phase of personal responsibility “and each and every one of us will have to take this personal responsibility.” Speaking on Tuesday at a briefing of the PTF, Mustapha said: “The medical advisory of keeping social distance, of personal hygiene, of wearing masks, of avoiding unnecessary travels and unnecessary visitations because what will happen to each and every one of us, going forward, will depend on what we do. “My passionate appeal is that the government is trying to do the best it can to provide safety and resources and facilities for us to combat COVID-19. The response of the citizens, on an individual and collective basis, will determine whether we’ll succeed or not. That’s the crux of the matter; that the next stage is that of personal responsibility for each and every one of us”. He said pandemic had permanently altered Nigeria’s ways of life, asking citizens to begin to learn how to adjust to this new reality. Mustapha said the relaxation of the lockdown was to enable the country gradually “return to our daily lives but in a moderated manner.” “This relaxation does not in any way imply that the danger has passed. The virus is still potent, virulent and dangerous. We must remain very vigilant and careful. We must take responsibility for our actions. We must commit to a collective victory over COVID-19.” He said law enforcement agencies would continue to enforce the restriction of movements, urging Nigerians to continue to adhere to the restriction order. The Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, said there was no fixed date yet for the resumption of schools despite President Muhammadu Buhari’s announcement of gradual ease of the lockdown in the FCT, Lagos and Ogun States. He said his ministry could not foresee or give any date for school resumption. He said: “The Federal Government is not ready to put children at risk by opening schools. The president actually addressed the issue of the opening of the economy gradually…It’ll not be proper for us to simply give you a date. It has to be in tandem with these opening terms. We don’t want to put our children at risk. None of these schools can function on its own without society. “On the question of children’s promotion to the next class, those exams will happen when we’re satisfied that the children have learnt what is enough for them to move. For those in the exit classes of junior basic and senior secondary schools, we’re preparing them and will continue to. “This will go on until we’re sure they’re equipped for the external examinations. The West African Examinations Council has not cancelled its external exams. It was postponed indefinitely. This indefinite nature is so that we can get a definite date.” The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, said American President Donald Trump, on Tuesday in a telephone conversation with President Muhammadu Buhari, pledged to donate ventilators to help Nigeria fight COVID-19. He said the phone conversation, which was at the request of Trump, centred on Nigeria’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. He said Buhari briefed Trump on the steps that Nigeria was taking to contain the spread of the disease; while the latter assured of his country’s solidarity with Nigeria. Re: Nasarawa buys N500m cars for lawmakers COVID-19: Nigeria not yet out of the woods – FG The rising challenges of COVID-19