One of the two COVID-19 patients in Enugu state – a husband and wife – who tested positive to the virus earlier, has been discharged. The state’s Ministry of Health disclosed this on Thursday. But the ministry could neither state whether it was the husband or his wife that was discharged, nor did it give further details about the discharged patient. Daily Trust recalls that the state’s Health ministry had on March 29, 2020 reconfirmed the two COVID-19 cases in the state, advising the general public, especially residents to remain calm as health personnel were already on top of the situation. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had also reported that two persons in Enugu state tested positive for COVID-19. The Permanent Secretary, Enugu State Ministry of Health, Dr. Ifeanyi Agujiobi, had also recently confirmed that “the two patients, who presented themselves for check on their own, tested positive for the coronavirus (COVID-19).” Dr. Agujiobi, who also confirmed that the patients were returnees from United Kingdom (UK), however, noted that “It is important to inform the public that the patients voluntarily contacted the Enugu State Ministry of Health, on arrival from United Kingdom and requested for the COVID-19 test which came out positive. “So far, the patients have remained in isolation and the Enugu State Multi-sectoral Rapid Response Team has commenced contact tracing.” However, a  statement issued late Wednesday evening by the  newly-appointed Commissioner for Health in the state, Prof. Ike Obi, stated that  “one of them is now Negative for the coronavirus and has been discharged,” adding that “the other person is stable and responding very well to treatment.” Obi added: “We encourage all persons to continue to stay home, maintain hand and respiratory hygiene, wear a face mask in line with the NCDC’s advisory and maintain physical distancing.” COVID-19: Ogun confirms 30-year-old female new case Osun discharges 10 out of 17 coronavirus patients Death toll hits 10 as NCDC confirms 13 new coronavirus cases