Food and beverages vendors have taken advantage of the lockdown imposed on the FCT by President Muhammad Buhari in a bid to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic to make brisk business at checkpoints mounted at the entry and exit points. Our reporter, who was caught up in the gridlock caused by an Army checkpoint in Kwali,  for over two hours observed that some travellers who could not bear hunger alighted from their vehicles to buy rice and beans inside disposable packs. Some sachet water and soft drinks hawkers also made brisk business as weary travellers bought water and drinks. A sachet of water which sold for N10 went for N20 while cold drinks such as Maltina, Coke and others which were sold for N150 became N200, but travellers rushed to buy them to quench their taste. A food vendor at the checkpoint, Mrs. Veronica Michael, said she sells a plate of rice and beans with one meat for N300 while a plate without meat goes for N200. “In fact, I have cooked rice twice today. I went back to the house to cook another pot of rice, after the one I brought in the morning finished around 11:am. As you can see, people are rushing to buy the food,” she said. City News further observed that snacks hawkers also got patronage from the travellers as some opted for snacks and cold drinks. Also, at the checkpoint on Keffi-Abuja road, hawkers took advantage and sold their drinks, chips and snacks. Tukur Sani, who sells fried plantain chips, said when the lockdown was imposed, his business stopped but he is happy that he has found another source of livelihood. A food vendor, Sarah Iheme, said she has been operating her business at the place and decided to continue as many people stop over to buy from her. It was observed that the operatives at the checkpoint have maintained strict checks on motorists coming into the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Food vendors make brisk business at Lagos fair Fuel price hike: Abuja restaurateurs adopt new measures Hot Weather: Soft drink vendors make brisk sales in Maiduguri