…forecasts drastic shocks for Nigeria, other African oil exporters The Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Ms. Kristalina Georgieva has said the fund will expedite action on the federal government’s request for $3.4 billion under the Fund’s Rapid Financing Instrument (RFI). The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, had on Monday hinted that government would seek $6.9bn from the World Bank, IMF and the AfDB to support its fight against the coronavirus pandemic in the country Out of the amount, the minister said the sum of $3.4bn would be sourced from the IMF, $2.5bn from the World Bank while the balance of $1bn is expected to be raised from the AfDB. In a statement issued by the Fund yesterday, Georgieva was quoted as saying that “Nigeria’s economy is being threatened by the twin shocks of the COVID-19 pandemic and the associated sharp fall in international oil prices. She noted that the present administration was taking a number of measures aimed at containing the spread of the virus and its impact, including by swiftly releasing contingency funds to the NCDC and working on an economic stimulus package that will help provide relief for households and businesses impacted by the downturn. She explained: “This emergency financing would allow the government to address additional and urgent balance of payments needs and support policies that would make it possible to direct funds for priority health expenditures and protect the most vulnerable people and firms.” Georgieva said the fund is working hard to respond to the request so that a proposal can be considered by the IMF’s Executive Board as soon as possible. Meanwhile, the Fund also predicted that African oil producing countries, Nigeria inclusive would experience drastic shock from the impact of COVID-19 and that the decline in economic activity globally would be felt severely in Africa. The director of the IMF’s African department, Mr. Abebe Selassie, disclosed this yesterday in a podcast. He noted that what started as a health crisis “has morphed into a major global economic crisis with global GDP growth, to slump at the minimum to the levels that we saw during the global financial crisis this year. “And this will have a drag in terms of demand for African exports in terms of investment decisions that non-residents would be undertaking in Africa, financing decisions. So this globally weaker environment will be a big drag. And the third channel is the sharp decline in commodity prices, and particularly of oil” the IMF chief added. According to him, “this would be mainly impactful for eight oil exporting countries (Nigeria inclusive) in the region, Sub-Saharan Africa. I fear it’s going to be really quite a drastic shock.” COVID-19: Nigeria seeks $6.9bn from IMF, World Bank, AfDB COVID-19: FG seeks N2.53trn from World Bank, IMF, others How Nigeria shifted attention to renewable energy at World Bank, IMF