As the Covid-19 pandemic continues to threaten the nation’s economy with far-reaching implications for joblessness, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Amaka Chiwuike-Uba Foundation (ACUF), has called on the Federal Government to convert the funds proposed for the employment of 774,000 road sweepers nationwide to cottage industries. The Foundation, in a statement sourced by Daily Trust, pointed out that building cottage industries and investing in agriculture would help to speed up the nation’s industrial and economic growth  as well as minimize the unemployment rate. The NGO’s Board Chairman, Dr Chiwuike Uba, also advised the government and Nigerians to accelerate economic diversification due to increasing revenue shortfalls from crude oil and its derivatives occasioned by COVID-19 global lockdown. Uba, who is also a development economist and governance expert, said: “If there is lesson Nigeria can learn from economic effects of COVID-19 pandemic and its attendant economic implications was to look beyond oil,’’ adding that both the federal and state governments should  commence full-scale, and immediate diversification of the economy. According to him, rather than deploying all the money appropriated for COVID-19 for palliatives, it is important to channel some of the money to an investment in massive productive infrastructure across Nigeria. He said: “The US $150m withdrawn from the Sovereign Wealth Fund (SWF) to augment the monthly sharing by the governments should have been appropriately invested in the social sectors. The big question is what would happen when we deplete all the savings.’’ Uba emphasized that it was time to start making the right investments, warning that otherwise, the medium and long term implications of COVID-19 on Nigerians would be so devastating. He advised: “We must reduce waste and frivolities associated with current governance structure and systems. “Obviously, that is the most veritable way out at this point given the much that has occurred, the demand destruction, too much debt-making and destruction, high unemployment, poverty level and high fiscal deficit’’, the development expert added.  COVID-19: Lagos state receives N1billion donation from UBA COVID-19: Akeredolu orders market closure UBA donates N5bn as COVID-19 relief support in Africa