Controversy is trailing the reported expulsion of Rep Usman Bello Kumo (APC, Gombe) from the All Progressives Congress (APC) by executives of his Kumo East Ward of the state. The party leaders at his ward in Kumo East, Akko LGA, had in a letter dated April 1 addressed to the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, said the expulsion followed a petition against the federal lawmaker. According to the letter signed by chairman of APC in Kumo East ward, Musa Barade, the ward executive committee had after receiving the petition, constituted a seven-man fact-finding committee to investigate the allegations levelled against the lawmaker. The leaders accused the lawmaker of anti-party activities which included allegedly working against the election of Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya in the 2019 general elections. They said such conduct cannot be tolerated and was contrary to the party’s constitution, especially Article 21, paragraph A(1) and (2) 2014 as amended. “The act of insulting and humiliating the personality of Senator Danjuma Goje during empowerment programme at Kumo and factionalisation and destruction of the party’s campaign office at Kumo are against our party’s ethics. “Also, the car donation by Usman Kumo to an interloper, one Garba Inuwa Gona, who is not even a constituent of Akko Federal Constituency, simply because he insulted Senator Goje on a local radio, clearly demonstrated his indiscipline, immorality and total disrespect to the leadership of the party. “Based on the above, the Kumo East ward of the APC hereby dismisses/expells Usman Bello Kumo with immediate effect, from today March, 30,” the letter read in part. However, the ward secretary of the party, Shuaibu Adamu led other 19 other executive members to distance themselves from the said dismissal of Bello Kumo from the party. Addressing newsmen yesterday at the APC state secretariat, Adamu said their signatures were forged by the ward chairman in the said letter expelling Kumo from the party. He also denied knowledge of the said seven-man fact-finding committee, saying the lawmaker was not invited before any disciplinary committee before he was allegedly dismissed from the party. “Therefore, we wish to inform our great party to ignore the false accusations against Usman Bello Kumo. Also based on the powers bestowed on us by Section 21 D, sub-section (f), we therefore suspend Musa Barade as APC chairman of Kumo East ward for six months with effect from April 2,” he said. Intrigues as APC expels Rep Kumo over ‘anti-party’ activities APC expels Rep. Dep. Chief Whip Sokoto APC, N’West vice chair differ over suspension