The Nigeria Financial Reporting Council (FRC) has released new guidelines for auditing companies to assist them in discharging their responsibilities to clients as the coronavirus pandemic continues its spread nationwide. In the guidelines obtained by Daily Trust, the Council acknowledged that several audit firms may have difficulties in completing all appropriate audit steps as a result of the disruptions to economic activities occasioned by the need to contain the spread of COVID-19. It noted that the ugly development had the potential of causing delay in the completion of audit and approval of financial statements by the Board of reporting entities.  To enable the audit firms proactively respond to the challenge, the FRC encouraged practitioners to demonstrate flexibility in their work pattern, which includes work from home arrangements, use of video/telephone conferencing, and electronic evidence. Even then, the Council stated that there may still be difficulties in obtaining sufficient audit evidence as a result of differing levels of infrastructure in the country.  For the auditing firms to navigate the hurdles, it canvassed: “The Auditor should apply alternative procedures. If the Auditor is still not able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, then the Auditor should consider modifying the opinion on the financial statements in line with ISA.” The FRC further advised that the audited financial statements containing the modified opinion must then be brought to the Council’s attention in accordance with the provisions of the FRC Act.  While agreeing with all the measures by the Federal and State Governments as well as relevant agencies in containing the COVID-19, the FRC expressed its concern about the financial health of corporate entities as usually reported in financial statements during this difficult period. Considering the impact of COVID-19 outbreak to be material, the Council “requires strict compliance with engagement procedures as provided in ISA 210 Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagement. Where it is impracticable to do so, the new Auditor should notify the FRC of situations and obtain permission before proceeding with the new audit.” In a multi-location audit situation, the FRC stipulates that the group auditor should consider the component auditors ability to complete their work and as well as the group auditor’s ability to review the work of component auditors. If he is still not able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, then he should consider modifying his opinion in line with the International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). The audited financial statements containing the modified opinion must then be brought to the Council’s attention in accordance with the provisions of the FRC Act. “Auditors should assess the implications of COVID-19 outbreak on client’s business operations and the financial reporting processes. The Auditors should discuss these matters proactively with clients to understand whether there is an impact on the client’s audit processes and reporting timetable”, the council advised. FRC inaugurates audit regulation working group KPMG stands by its audit opinions on Stanbic IBTC Holdings NCC, FRC to entrench corporate governance compliance in telecoms