The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has suspended the processing and issuance of air operator’s certificate (AOC) as well as granted extension for the renewal of licenses by operators and aviation professionals. Director-General of the NCAA, Capt. Musa Nuhu, who also announced the suspension of inspections and audits until June 30th, 2020, said the regulatory steps were taken as proactive response to the raging COVID-19 pandemic and the global travel restrictions. This was contained in a letter issued to operators and stakeholders dated April 1. The NCAA boss directed that operators intending to renew their approval certificates and Aircraft Maintenance Clearance Certificates during this period to submit applications and proof of payment electronically to the relevant officials. This is even as he confirmed that no applications for extensions of maintenance intervals shall be considered during this period, except for essential and emergency flights approved the Minister of Aviation. By the announcement, all inspections, checks, and audits paid for by clients are suspended until further notice. The letter further clarified: “All personnel whose licences are due to expire after April 1st can exercise the privileges of their licences for an extended period of up to 30th June 2020. This applies to pilots, air traffic controllers, cabin crew, aircraft maintenance engineer, flight dispatcher, aeronautical station operator, air traffic safety electronics personnel and designated examiners. “Medical certificates will be extended for a period of up to 30th June 2020”, it added. Daily Trust reports that the NCAA had also suspended the processing of Approved Maintenance Organisations (AMO), Aircraft Type Certificate Acceptance, Aircraft Registration, and Related Matters, Modifications and Repairs, Airworthiness Certificates, Maintenance Clearance Certificates (MCC), amongst others. Meanwhile, the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), the body representing indigenous carriers, in a letter of appreciation to the NCAA DG signed by its Chairman, Sir Nogie Megisson, commended the authority for “granting an extension in validity of licences of Air crew and other critical operational staff in response to the COVID-19 shutdown.”  NCAA suspends airline’s certificate, sanctions 3 others NCAA sanctions four airlines over safety violations First Nation Airways suspended over illegal operations