The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has commended the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for its ongoing efforts aimed at deregulating the nation’s petroleum industry downstream sector. The organised private sector (OPS) group in a statement issued by  the Director General, Mr. Muda Yusuf, on Sunday, pointed out that the move to put an end to the subsidy/under recovery regime, would be a game changer for the oil and gas sector and the economy. According to the group, the impact of the measure on the economy will be invaluable hence the need for the state-owned oil corporation to entrench the new policy direction so that there will be no contemplation of any form of reversal. The DG stated: “We are aware that similar attempts to undertake this crucial reform in the past have not been successful.  However, we are confident that in the current dispensation, this will not be the case.” Yusuf explained there was the need to reconcile the initiative with some extant laws such as those setting up the Petroleum Subsidy Fund (PSF), the Petroleum Product Pricing and Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) and the Petroleum Equalization Fund (PEF). He also stressed the need to ensure clarity on access to foreign exchange for petroleum marketers to import petroleum products. He further clarified: “One of the critical elements of the oil and gas sector reform, particularly the downstream sector, is the complete deregulation of the sector. This was the spirit of the Petroleum Industry Bill which, regrettably, has got stuck in the legislative processes for close to two decades. The reform of the downstream oil and gas sector would create a number of advantages for the economy. “It will free resources for investment in critical infrastructure such as power, roads, the rail systems, health sector and education sector among others; it will unlock the huge private investment potentials in the downstream oil sector especially in petroleum product refining; it will ultimately reduce importation of petroleum products and ease the pressure on the foreign exchange market as well as the burden on our foreign reserves. “It will also eliminate the patronage, rent seeking activities and corruption that currently characterise the downstream oil sector as well as create more jobs for the teeming youths of the country in the downstream oil sector as investment in the sector improves,” the DG added.  Economy to lose N150bn daily to PENGASSAN, NUPENG proposed strike - LCCI FG slashes petrol pump price to N125/litre Nigeria imported N2.3trn fuel in 2018