In an effort to take further preventive measures against the dreaded coronavirus, Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong has ordered six days total lockdown, effective from 12 midnight of Thursday 9th April 2020 to 11 pm of Wednesday 15th April 2020. He said the lockdown is to carry out a state-wide fumigation exercise,which will cover Jos-Bukuru metropolis and all the 17 local governments areas of the state. Speaking at a press conference in the Old Government House in Jos the state capital, Lalong said during the lockdown period there will be no movement of any kind except for staff on essential duty like security agencies, medical and health workers, power and energy staff, fire service, media, telecom operators and fuel tankers. “Government has concluded plans to carry out a state-wide fumigation exercise, which will cover Jos-Bukuru metropolis and all the 17 local governments areas of the state in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. To this effect, I am directing a total lockdown, effective 12 midnight of Thursday 9th April 2020 to 11 pm on Wednesday 15th April 2020. “The COVID-19 Taskforce under my chairmanship meets every day to receive briefs, analyse and review strategies of the entire response. We had set ground rules for general observation such as sanitation and personal hygiene; crowd control of not more than 50 people; maintaining of social distance of 2 metres and 5 metres apart for traders selling food items,” he said. “I also undertook a facility tour of Plateau Specialist Hospital, Jos University Teaching Hospital and Bingham University Teaching Hospital to assess the state of medical facilities and capacity to respond to COVID-19 pandemic. After receiving complaints on insufficient respirators and other essentials, I immediately directed the purchase of some ventilators, which are being received at the moment. “We also purchased Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), monitors, infrared thermometers, oxygen, concentrators and other essential drugs,” he said. He disclosed that the government has engaged one of the sons of the state, Engr. Jerry Mallo to produce ventilators while the duo of Engineers Nura Jibrin and William Gyang have resuscitated broken down ventilators at the Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH). “We are also taking steps to establish more COVID-19 isolation centres in Pankshin and Shendam to cover the senatorial districts in the state. In line with the federal government directive, we propose to establish a 300-bed treatment centre to be located at the Riyom General Hospital and the State NYSC Camp,” he said. LG boss leads fumigation against coronavirus Family Planning: Plateau First Lady commissions 6 clinics Niger earmarks N400m for palliatives