BUA Foundation, the Foundation of the BUA Group, has committed N3.3 billion to the current fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The funding commitment was conveyed in a letter dated April 24, 2020 signed by the Founder, Alhaji Abdul Samad Rabiu, CON, to the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, a copy of which was obtained by Daily Trust yesterday. While expressing the Foundation’s deep concern over the alarming rate of the spread of the pandemic in the country, especially in Kano and Lagos, despite the concerted efforts to curtail its spread, Alhaji Rabiu, however, commended the leadership shown by the taskforce and the NCDC so far in the fight against the scourge. He pointed out that based on what is going on, especially in Kano at the moment, the Foundation decided in the immediate, to commit N3.3 billion to a working group made of the Presidential Task Force, NCDC and other stakeholders in equipping two existing permanent facilities in Kano and Lagos State, whilst collaborating with the teaching hospitals in the two states. He stated: “To this end, I am immediately committing and making available, through the BUA Foundation, two grants of Two Billion Naira for the Kano-based intervention and One Billion Naira for Lagos State being the two epicenters of this virus in Nigeria. A sum of N300 million will also be made available immediately in cash to the Presidential Task Force to assist with logistics and operational activities of the taskforce. This grant is in addition to BUA’s earlier contributions to the private sector led CACOVID coalition and donations to other states. “The Working Group will be expected to use resources at its disposal to ensure these facilities – to be determined by the Working Group are fully equipped in the shortest possible time. I believe this will effectively help to expand the scope of interventions, ongoing research as well as support already stretched medical facilities dedicated to this fight”, the philanthropist added. According to him, the Foundation is looking forward to receiving at the earliest, grant proposals from the working Group. BUA Group donates N3.3bn to fight COVID-19 in Kano, Lagos Task force on Covid-19 has not received a kobo from private donations – Lai Mohammed BUA donates N1bn to support COVID-19 response