The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Abeokuta Field Office, Ogun State, has warned residents on panic buying and storing petroleum products in their houses as the state prepares for total lockdown from Friday. The Office’s Operations Controller, Mrs Muinat Bello-Zagi, who gave the warning in a statement issued in Abeokuta yesterday, said there was no justification for panic buying as all depots were loading and petroleum products would be available throughout the lockdown period. Bello-Zagi said, “There’s no reason to do that. There’s enough product and all the depots are loading. The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) Chairman, Mosimi, Otunba Femi Adelaja, has assured us of his members’ commitment to the availability of products. “People should also desist from buying petrol inside polythene bags or plastic bottles. These are unsafe practices.” She also advised consumers of liquified petroleum gas, also known as cooking gas, to patronise only licensed plants, and cautioned all residents on the use of hand sanitisers, saying they should not use it close to any source of ignition or in the kitchen. “In the course of our surveillance, we’ve also noticed that some people overzealously make use of hand sanitisers. Some even rub it on their body. This is quite unsafe because it contains alcohol, which could cause fire incidents,” she said. Bello-Zagi urged members of the public to check enabling laws and guidelines before delving into the oil and gas business. “Intending operators are advised to log on to the DPR website; www.dpr.gov.ng  for more information, just as LPG operators too should submit their applications online via elps.dpr.gov.ng. “We also encourage members of the public to report any unsafe act at any oil and gas installations during and after the lockdown,” the Operations Controller said. Lockdown: Why you shouldn't store petrol in your house - DPR Yuletide: DPR allays fears of fuel scarcity, warns against sharp practices Invest in CNG stations, DPR tells Ogun marketers