The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), operators of the national power grid, has raised the alarm that the raging controversy that the Federal Government will provide free electricity for consumers, may substantially dip revenue generation in the electricity market. The company’s Managing Director, Mr Usman Gur Mohammed, in an interview yesterday dismissed the claims, saying government does not own all sections in the power sector and cannot give free electricity. He said, “There is also the information that power is going to be free, that is going to affect us because some customers who get this information may not likely pay.” Daily Trust reports that the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED) had recently said it was backing a two-month free electricity initiative by the National Assembly and the Executive arm of the government as a palliative measure following the increasing devastating impact of  Coronavirus on all areas of national life. But countering this rumour, Mohammed said the Federal Government cannot make power free because it does not own the power, pointing out that apart from the transmission (TCN) which is just the transporter of electricity that belongs to the government, all the other chains are in private hands. “Even as at now that the federal government is providing subsidy, and that is not coming enough as we still have huge unpaid bills,” Mohammed explained. He added that electricity supply services significantly improved in the first 14 days of the lock-down across Lagos, Ogun States and Abuja. The industry expert canvassed: “At this stage, what we need to do is to sustainably supply electricity. That is what we are doing and in the last two weeks that we have been on lock-down, we have performed very well.” The TCN boss spoke on some of the company’s major achievements in the first quarter of this year, including the installation of seven large bulk power transformers. FG to sink fresh N915bn loan into power sector Free electricity: Consumers demand clarity on modalities Resolving the power sector conundrum