Wema Bank yesterday donated relief materials to Ogun State Government as part of the efforts to mitigate the effects of the Federal Government-ordered lockdown of the state. Some of the materials are; 3,000 bags of 5kg rice, 250 cartoons of vegetable oil and 1,100 cartoons of noodles. Delivering the items to government officials at the food bank in Ikenne, Wema Bank Zonal Business Manager Abeokuta, Dele Adefemi said the donations were part of the bank’s collaboration with the state government’s fight against the COVID – 19 pandemic. Adefemi, hinted that before now the bank had donated N250m towards the efforts to curtail the pandemic in Nigeria. He said: “This is not the first time as the bank as a corporate entity has rendered efforts towards the battle against the virus. Before now, we have joined a coalition of banks and corporate institutions, and we have donated towards this cause at the Federal level. “As a bank, we donated N250m towards that and the efforts are not limited to Federal or Ogun State in specific, we are going round to the states in Nigeria. Donations are being made in the entire south west. It will get to entire country as times goes on. “Our expectation is that in line with what the state government has defined before now which is that they  will be given the relief material to residents of the state, so we expect that this will go a long way in supporting efforts the government will be making”, the banker added Meanwhile, the state government has promised to be transparent and accountable in the sharing of all donations received in the fight against pandemic in the state. The Secretary to the State Government, Tokunbo Talabi, gave the assurance while receiving relief materials donated by the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) to assist the government. “I want to thank you on behalf of His Excellency, and promise you that every gift that we received on behalf of the under – privileged is going to be accounted for. Every gift that we have received is going to be judiciously distributed without fear or favour,” Talabi said.