Customers at various banks in Kaduna metropolis were yesterday thrown into panic and anger for being denied access and services at their respective banks over the COVID-19 pandemic-triggered lockdown in the city. The banks’ latest action, Daily Trust gathered was not unconnected with the CBN’s directive given over a week ago, which required the lenders to provide skeletal services to customers as the COVID-19 continued its spread across the country. But the customers were particularly jolted by the closure of the banks for over-the-counter transactions, which most of them enjoyed last week. Our correspondents who visited a few banks including Unity, Union, Jaiz, Access, Keystone and First Bank in the metropolis observed long queues, as customers anticipated that the banks will still offer skeletal services like the previous week. Further findings showed that Unity Bank was, however, offering skeletal services to some customers who were mostly pensioners. Daily Trust gathered that some customers besieged their banks’ premises as early as 7am for one transaction or the other and after being given numbers and waiting for hours, they were told that the bank will not be opened to customers because of the lockdown. At a Unity Bank branch located along Ahmadu Bello way in Kaduna metropolis, many customers were seen scattered around with the gate locked, while others were lamenting on how long they have been waiting endlessly to withdraw their cash. One of the customers, Abdullahi Haruna said he left his home around 7 am and had visited several banks but was told they were closed but was advised to go to the Ahmadu Bello branch. He lamented: “I had problem with my ATM card so I was not able to use the machine to withdraw, now, I need to use my cheque book to withdraw unfortunately, it is becoming a tedious task, I have been sitting here all day and the bank staff are not responding to us.” Our correspondents observed that to prevent overcrowding at the bank, a piece of paper with number was shared to individual customers to ensure a first come first serve principles. But Aminu said he was given a number when he came early in the day and has been in line without being attended to. The same scenario played out at Jaiz Bank as customers’ trooped in to withdraw cash but were unable. Halima Gambo said her ATM expired so she came early to see if help can be rendered to her. “When I got to the bank, we were told to wait till 9 am for the bank to open. We organised ourselves and numbers were given to everyone. However, we were told later that the bank will not open after hours of waiting due to the CBN directives and any bank that opens will be locked.” She added that those that operated corporate bank account were also turned back despite using their account without ATM cards. Though Access Bank at Ahmadu Bello Way was closed, helpless customers whose ATM cards got stuck were seen engaging security guards in war of words. According to Stephen George, “my card got stuck in the ATM and for hours I have been waiting to see whether it can be retrieved.” Partial operations: Bank customers group appeals to members on hitches NLC strike: Mixed feelings, anxiety in states Covid-19: Customers hurry for last-minute transactions