Following the death of Senator Rose Oko (PDP, Cross River North) about two weeks ago in a London hospital, intense lobbying and scheming have begun in the state, especially amongst politicians in two blocs in the senatorial district, to replace her. The five local government areas which make up the district are Ogoja, Yala, Bekwarra, Obudu and Obanliku. It has two federal constituencies namely, Yala/Ogoja and Obudu/Bekwarra/Obanliku. They are the two blocs (Old Ogoja and Old Obudu) that historically divide the district into two. Constitutionally, it takes 90-120 days for INEC to conduct fresh election to replace the diseased. Meanwhile, the Yala are insisting that since Rose Oko hailed from there, they should be allowed to present a candidate to continue with her tenure. A stakeholder, Greg Adams said, “Death claimed her. We cannot question that. Justice is that someone from her local government should be allowed to step in and complete her tenure.” But there is counter-argument that between the two constituencies – Ogoja/Yala federal constituency with two local governments – Rose’s LG has held the Senate seat for 13 years whereas Obudu/Bekwarra/Obanliku with three local governments has had it for 12 years. A public commentator argued that “Going by the permutations making the rounds on social media that power must return to the late senator’s federal constituency for fairness, I make bold to say that such fairness is paralytic and unfair. Now some politicians are trying to persuade a member representing Yala/Ogoja federal constituency, Jarigbe Agom, as a possible replacement. But he sharply rejected the move, saying nobody should link him with the ongoing plotting, adding that what he needs now is concentration. Others are also looking seriously at the man who gave Agom a good fight towards the last election into the House of Representatives, Jude Ngaji, who was a state security adviser to Governor Liyel Imoke. So far, he has not made any comment yet. 300 C/River students get NIMASA scholarship In 2yrs, NDDC rehabilitated 90% of roads in C/River-Ndoma-Egba Cross River hands off four hospitals to concessionaires