The Federal Government says Nigerians in China are suffering discrimination, just as it suspects institutional attacks on them and citizens of other African countries. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama, stated this yesterday while briefing  newsmen on alleged continued maltreatment of Nigerians in Guangzhou, China. He said latest reports being received were contrary to the recent assurances by the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr Zhou Pingjian, and the Nigerian government would not accept maltreatment of Nigerians. The Chinese ambassador to Nigeria had earlier said the alleged maltreatment of Nigerians and other Africans in Guangzhou was not what it seemed and subsequently blamed the situation on lack of proper communication. Onyeama said more findings from government officials in Guangzhou showed that the situation was still not under control as they were made to believe. “It became a distressing issue as if it was an institutional attack on the rights and dignity of Nigerians and Africans there.  So as I said, with confirmation from people who were there, I again invited today the Chinese ambassador and presented these facts to him. I said it looks contrary to promises that had been made and guarantees given, that the situation does not seem to have ameliorated and this is totally unacceptable. We have stories of Nigerians who have been evicted from their residences and were unable to get back into their hotels from where they were isolated and removed to more expensive hotels and Nigerians are not being served at restaurants and shopping malls and this is totally unacceptable and something needs to be done,” he said. The minister who warned that the federal government would get to the bottom of the matter said it was unacceptable for integrity of Nigerians anywhere in the world to be undermined. “We cannot accept any differential treatment against any Nigerian or African. We have zero tolerance for maltreatment of Nigerians anywhere in the world and this case is no exception and we will get to the bottom of it and do whatever we have to do to ensure that there is no reoccurrence” Onyeama said. The minister noted that the current development does not represent the value of China and is not a reflection of the friendship between the two countries, adding that everything must be done to ensure that such treatment does not happen again. Onyeama also said he directed Nigerians in China who had faced any form of discrimination to document it and it would be used to demand for compensation. He said the Chinese ambassador promised to investigate the latest report and get back to him.  He added government was working on returning Nigerians concerned to Nigeria because they were agitating to return home, and every returnee would be responsible for his or her ticket. He said efforts were on to secure clearance for their airlift. FG to evacuate Nigerians in China over maltreatment China explains strict measures against Nigerians in Guangzhou Why we used 'strict measures' against Nigerians in Guangzhou — China