The Ondo State governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has flagged off the distribution of palliatives to the poor and the vulnerable in the state. Performing the symbolic presentation of food items to the poor at the Government House, Alagbaka, Akure, on Saturday, Gov Akeredolu stressed that the food items must be shared to only the poor and vulnerable across all the 18 local government areas of the state, irrespective of their political affiliations. Explaining how the items would be shared, the Chairman of the Palliative Committee, Pastor Akin Olotu, who is the Senior Special Assistant to the governor on Agric and Agribusiness, disclosed that the committee was targeting 70,000 indigent persons in all the local governments in the first phase of the programme. Olotu said high density local governments would have the larger share, while other less populated communities would also have a substantial share. He revealed that there was fair representation of all the underprivileged in the distribution of the palliatives, saying farmers, artisans, old women and old men, the physically-challenged and other groups were adequately represented. He also said that the Committee had put up a mechanism that would ensure the food items were distributed to the right people. “We selected some reputable people who will be able to distribute the food items to the appropriate set of people at the grassroots. “Beneficiaries will include a woman who just gave birth to babies, among them a woman who gave birth to a set of triplets, and a cancer patient. Each person will get 1kg of chicken, in addition to the package. Some will receive eggs”, Olotu said. Gov Akeredolu maintained that all the food items must be distributed in the public domain to avoid sharp practices and sentiments. The food items packaged for the beneficiaries include rice, beans, garri and vegetable oil. Warning residents on the consequences of breaking the lockdown rules, Gov Akeredolu revealed that he had held a security meeting with all security chiefs in the state to strategize on how to ensure full compliance with the rules. He declared that anyone found culpable of breaking any of the rules handed down to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the state would be prosecuted. Cash transfer, et al as COVID-19 lockdown palliatives Coronavirus: Osun residents to get free food stuff from Wednesday - SSG No politics in distribution of palliatives — Commissioner