The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Ogun Area Command I, has disclosed that it intercepted contrabands with Duty Paid Values (DPV) worth about N1. 177billion in the first quarter of this year. The total DPV of seizures made by the Command in the corresponding period of last year stood at N438.9million. The Area Controller, Michael Agbara disclosed this while briefing newsmen on the performance of the command in the quarter under review at Sentry, Idiroko, Ogun State. The officer listed the items seized as including 293,015 litres of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), 625 litres of diesel and 19 jerry cans of kerosene, 176 sacks of cannabis sativa (Indian Hemp), comprising 1, 790 Parcels, 80 compressed books packs 28 compressed coconut packs and four in different parts of Ogun State. According to him, other seizures made within the period are 225 units of vehicles; 14,951 bags of 50kg rice and 9,161 cartons of poultry products. Agbara disclosed that the command generated N37,878,000 revenue from the auction of the intercepted petroleum products. He noted that “daredevil smugglers” despite the lockdown and the ravaging coronavirus explored difficult terrain to smuggle items into the country. Agbara, however, said the command remained resolute and committed to implement Federal Government policies geared towards safety and well – being of the populace. He said:  “Furthermore, the Command Special Taskforce, intercepted nine vehicles (7 SUVs Nissan Pathfinder and 2 Mazda) fully loaded with smuggled parboiled rice. It is important to bring to the notice of the public that during the lockdown, some daredevil smugglers ingeniously explored the difficult terrain with SUV vehicles to convey smuggled items into the country. The proactive activities of officers and men in Command led to remarkable seizures of such categories of vehicles conveying smuggled items. As a responsive and responsible Service, we remain resolute and focused in making sure that economic saboteurs are brought to their knees. “Finally, I wish to once again reiterate our resolve to continue rendering our service to the public with utmost patriotism and commitment. It is our prayers and enthusiasm that the world will overcome this pandemic (COVID-19) and bounce back towards the path of good health and economic well-being”, Agbara assured. Customs unbundles Ogun Area Command, nets N1.28bn for July Customs rakes in N1.12bn IGR, seizes 67 vehicles in Ogun Customs unbundles Ogun Area Command, nets in N1.28bn for July