Kano State has again lost three high profile personalities to death. Their deaths on Wednesday came after about 12 high profile personalities died in the state last week. On Wednesday morning, a former Director of Finance, National Orthopaedic Hospital Dala, Alhaji Salisu Ado died at Dala. Late Alhaji Salisu Ado was admitted with severe breathing difficulties and the doctors tried to save him but he subsequently died. The death also occurred of Alhaji Aminu Yahya, who was a former Commissioner in the Ministry of Education, Kano, and also a former Executive Director with one of the state’s agencies. Also, a former Executive Secretary of Kano State Agency for Mass Education, Alhaji Muhammad Aliyu, has passed on. His burial took place at GATC quarters Kabuga in Kano. A community-based survey with strong evidence of data analytics has confirmed a recent Daily Trust exclusive report on increased mortality in Kano State within days. Daily Trust on 21st April, 2020, reported that 150 people died in Kano in three days and were buried in three cemeteries, heightening fears that they might have died as a result of a strange ailment. The state Commissioner of Health, Dr. Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa, in a reaction to Daily Trust enquiries had said the ministry could not immediately verify the claim but assured that it was investigating the incident and possible causes of the deaths. READ: Funeral prayers for multiples as Kano death toll mounts Governor Abdullahi Ganduje earlier denied the Daily Trust story in an interview with Channels Television, but later admitted the development through his commissioner. One week after the Daily Trust report, the governor in a statement through his Commissioner of Information, Muhammad Garba, confirmed the deaths but said the preliminary report showed it was not connected to the coronavirus (COVID-19). Nigeria has been battling COVID-19 pandemic since March with 1,728 cases recorded as at Wednesday, among which 45 deaths occurred. Kano recorded 115 cases with one death, according to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The survey, which was conducted by an Applied Mathematician and Data Analyst, at the Department of Mathematics, Yusuf Maitama Sule University in Kano, Yusuf Yau Gambo, was reviewed by two experts in the field of medicine, along with a clinical perspective provided to further clarify the survey result. Single day high-profile deaths put Kano on edge Ado Bayero’s sons visit Emir Sanusi More troubles for Emir Sanusi