The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has proposed a post COVID-19 pandemic rescue plan for Nigeria’s economic rejuvenation for consideration by the governments and all relevant agencies. The Chamber noted that the lockdown occasioned by the ravaging pandemic had derailed business projections with many businesses grounded, supply chains disrupted and aggregate demand depressed. The OPS group in a statement issued by its Director General of LCCI, Dr. Yusuf Muda, however stressed the need to salvage investments across all levels in order to save the economy from total collapse. Specifically, the chamber canvassed the suspension of all forms of taxes for health sector investors including pharmaceutical companies and hospitals and medical laboratories among others; agriculture and agro-processing; aviation and hospitality sectors for at least one year as a strategic fiscal option to sustain their operations. In addition, the group recommended the extension of filling of annual returns, including payment of due amounts to June 30th 2020; unconditional waiver of penalties and interests of all outstanding tax payments; temporary suspension of recently introduced 50 percent increase in VAT till year end; 50 percent reduction in all taxes currently being paid by companies in manufacturing for one year. On the fiscal policy palliatives for the real sector, the Chamber proposed that health sector raw materials and equipment should attract zero import duty to incentivize greater private sector investment in the health sector. Also the manufacturing raw materials and intermediate products should attract import duty waiver for six months. The DG further clarified on the chamber’s stance: “One key lesson of the COVID-19 is the imperative of domestic production and building capacity for self-reliance. The global supply chain disruptions took a heavy toll on the manufacturing sector. To accelerate a rebound of the sector, this incentive is necessary. “The Agro-processing inputs should enjoy import duty waiver for one year, excise duty payment for manufacturers should be suspended for one year and there should be greater commitment of government and its agencies to the patronage of made in the Nigerian products,” “Government should create a strong monitoring framework to ensure compliance with the relevant executive order, import duty waiver on machineries without need for any bureaucracy, for at least 12months. This would facilitate the completion of ongoing projects by industrialists. Nigeria needs growth as this will be key to project completion to encourage job creation,” Muda stressed. The chamber also recommended that banks should grant one-year moratorium and six months interest rate concessions, effective from March 2020, adding that to make this possible there should be a review of the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) from the current level of 27% percent to 20%  to enable banks offer loans at concessionary interest rates and grant moratorium to deserving investors. COVID-19: LCCI seeks fiscal, monetary incentives for importers, others COVID-19: LCCI tasks experts on growth course for Nigeria’s economy No economic growth without trans-border trade – FG