Prof. Abdulsalami Nasidi is the pioneer Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Nasidi, who once served as the chief epidemiologist of the federation for 16 years, and was also involved in the country’s successful fight against Ebola, speaks on the country’s readiness to tackle the current COVID-19 pandemic in the country, among other issues. Daily Trust: What’s your take on the country’s preparedness and response to the coronavirus outbreak? Prof. Abdulsalami Nasidi: I will say we are lucky to some extent because before this disease came, we had the Ebola experience. The way we fought Ebola helped us prepare for similar outbreaks in the future, so, Nigeria had in place mechanism used to fight Ebola, which is now being used to fight the coronavirus. But, that is just one aspect of that preparedness. On the other aspect of preparedness, we are not very ready. For instance, we are using the laboratories that we established at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) to fight Ebola. It is what we used to confirm the coronavirus and sequenced the virus including the one at the Nigeria Institute for Medical Research (NIMR). So, you can see that from diagnostic point of view, we are ready, and in positioning manpower, we also tried. At least, we are using the NCDC team and the team in Lagos. But, when you come to our readiness to actually manage the patient, to handle the outbreak as to minimise the impact, we are not very ready. Let me list the reasons why we are not ready to that extent. We don’t have enough masks, we don’t have enough facilities and gadgets to fight the spread of the disease. So, we are not really ready to arrest the spread. So, from the point of having enough masks, respiratory machines, isolation facilities, disinfectants to decontaminate surfaces, we are not ready. Lastly, we do not have enough laboratory reagents, the ones we have now are the ones that were donated by WHO and the US Centres for Disease Control (CDC). But, we don’t have them enough to face this outbreak. You can imagine if we now have up to 200- 1000 cases and people begin to run better skelter. We need to provide everyone with masks.  We need to provide enough hand washing facilities, and make available hand sanitisers, hygiene gadgets and disinfectants, especially at places of work. Luckily, we don’t have any community transmissions yet, we don’t have clusters yet, we hope that it doesn’t happen, if it happens, we are not ready to face it as it were, because we don’t have the gadgets to face it. DT: Do you think the coronavirus case in the country could grow worse? Nasidi: Yes, it’s very possible and if we are lucky, it might not. I will give you three reasons. First, the Lagos State government and the NCDC tried very well to get the index patient, isolate him and started contact tracing to get all the people that came in contact with him. But, in epidemiology, there are things we call tracking the primary contacts and tracking the secondary contact. The primary contacts are those the patient came in contact with. The secondary contacts are those the first contact came in contact with.  Unfortunately, we were not able to track all those who are supposed to be his primary contact, who came in that plane with him. Secondly, we have not been able to test everybody, the number of contacts identified so far could be more. And in a couple of weeks, more people that we need to test could be identified. So, we have a backlog of that one. Ability to isolate helps to reduce transmissibility of the virus. If we don’t identify and isolate quickly, the viral load will multiply in a patient’s body and he will become more and more infectious. So, with these things on ground, it will be difficult to say that the virus will not spread, it could spread, and if it does, we don’t know how far it will go. DT: What is your advice for the NCDC and the Nigerian government on diseases like this? What are we not doing right or are supposed to do? Nasidi: If we start with the NCDC, I can tell you that they are doing well from what they have. This is because even with the limitations they are able to diagnose the disease, they have been able to sequence the virus, position workers and establish emergency operating centres. They have done very well, no doubt about that, but they need to be empowered to do more and they need to be given funds for the matter. At the ministry of health level, I can say that the minister has actually taken the lead, very impressive! He is taking the risk; he has gone to the places affected. But he is also limited, he has no funds to get wherewithal to do the fight. So, they are limited, but they can do more, if they are empowered. I am happy they have formed a task force now, this task force should be meeting every day or thrice a week. They shouldn’t take it for granted. The task force is made up of powerful ministries but if there is no proper coordination, there will be a big problem. I hope that there will be very good coordination. Then, we have not done much on providing drugs. No drugs yet to treat patients. If a patient goes into ventilatory distress and needs a ventilator, respirator or oxygen, do we have enough? Lastly, we can’t be jumping from one outbreak to the other and relying on everything imported. We should start thinking of manufacturing these things ourselves. There are some drugs that have been found to reduce the respiratory attack and all. Some of the centres that they take these patients to don’t have it, and those that have, don’t have enough. These are the things I think we should do to make Nigeria come out. We can do it. We did it with Ebola, we can do it again! DT: What inspired the establishment of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control? Nasidi: We wanted an independent organization that can act fast during public health emergencies and to empower Nigeria to have its own national public health institute. I pursued the idea because when I was the chief epidemiologist for Nigeria, I realised we were always having delays. When outbreaks occur, it takes a long time to respond, because you have to write to the permanent secretary, the minister and so on. What is very crucial in health emergencies is the response time; the time within which you respond after the emergency has occurred. If it takes long, your ability to mitigate the impact of that emergency will be limited. But, with the NCDC, we are able to respond within 24-48 hours at any given time to any health emergency in the country. But, the most important point on why we needed the NCDC, was to help states build capacity in public health.  When we started the NCDC, Nigeria had less than 20 experts with Masters degree in public health. So, when we established the NCDC, we established a training programme to empower Nigerians to grow to be specialists in public health. Within two years of establishing the NCDC, we started a programme called the Nigerian field epidemiological and laboratory training programme. That programme has affiliation to the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria and to the University of Ibadan. We trained Nigerians to the Masters level in public health and within seven years, we increased the number of public health experts in Nigeria to almost 124 which empowered many states to be able to even have their own experts in public health. Now, all the states have health experts that can start controlling any outbreak even before the federal government comes in. And that’s what is happening in Lagos now with this coronavirus. Before now, we would have waited for experts from America, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), but our experts are on ground; we don’t rely on anybody again to do this for us. The third reason why the NCDC was established is our ability to do things for ourselves; to diagnose the outbreak, and a good example is again shown in this coronavirus. Before now, if there is any outbreak, what we do is to wait, take the sample, ice it, box it and take to WHO in Geneva, London or Paris to diagnose. Before they do the diagnosis and send back to us, it’s about two to three weeks. But now we have solid laboratories virtually in all the states and we have VSL2 laboratories in all the zones of the country. As you can see, when coronavirus landed in Nigeria, within 48 hours our laboratories identified the virus, within five days, they even sequenced the gene and shared it with WHO, that’s a feat. Nigeria’s Nasidi and America’s Fauci: Fighting COVID-19 How to kill a contagion Hospitals form Nigeria’s defence against next Ebola “surprise”