A former Kano State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Aliyu Umar (SAN), died early yesterday at the age of 68 after a brief illness. The renowned lawyer served as the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice of the state between 2003 and 2011 during the administration of Ibrahim Shekarau. President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday condoled with the government and people of Kano State over the death. In a statement by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, the Presedent also commiserated with his family, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and all his professional colleagues, especially in the public service. The president who recalled his sacrifices, dedication and commitment to the pursuit of justice in the country, said the deceased dedicated his life and intellect to the service of Nigeria and humanity. He said Umar’s investment of time and resources in handling some of the most sensitive criminal cases in the country would always be remembered, and his willingness to prosecute for the benefit of the state and downtrodden had left an indelible mark on Nigeria’s justice system. The president prayed that the Almighty God grant him peaceful rest and comfort his family. In his condolence message, Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, described the late attorney general as an icon who left an indelible mark in the history and practice of judiciary in the country. In statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Abba Anwar, Ganduje said, “We really miss one of the country’s finest legal practitioners. We are touched severely with the passing away of our own, Barrister Aliyu Umar (SAN).” Ganduje described Barrister Umar as an epitome of justice and an “embodiment of unrivalled and unassuming dispensation of justice”, which manifested in his struggle for the promotion of access to justice and equality before the law. He prayed for Allah’s mercy and blessings on his soul, while urging his children to follow his footsteps in loving and serving humanity. He has been buried according to Islamic rites.  Buhari mourns former Kano Justice Commissioner, Aliyu Umar Family visits Sanusi in Awe FG determined to ensure unhindered access to Justice for Nigerians – Malami