Tukur Adam, popularly known as Mr or Moh Tukur, has been awarded winner of the 2020 Fresh Hausa Fulani Award. This makes him the newly crowned IG president. Results showed that Adam scored the highest votes over other participants who are all famous Instagram user models. Adam is a Nigerian fashion model, computer scientist, and a business man. His appearance and style have earned him recognition within and outside the shores of Nigeria. Today, Adam is one of northern Nigeria’s most famous fashion Icons. With an active social media presence, he has amassed over 85,893 followers on Instagram as of March 2020. In an earlier interview with Weekend Magazine, Adam had talked about the misconception about modelling. “Many people think being a model means posing nude or half naked for the world to see and then you get paid. I want to prove that there is modesty in modelling. I earn a living without being wayward or deviating from my culture and norms. What is happening nowadays is that, the mantle of glamour has been taken from the women and given to the men,” he said. Adam further said his choice to model as a career was influenced by his zeal to prove to the world that, the North can borrow, modify and adopt various entertainment opportunities that can earn them a lawful living. He added that, his involvement in modelling is to also prove a point that there is modesty in that line of work. Popularly known as Mr President, Adam is a graduate of Computer Science from Nuhu Bamalli Polytechnic, Zaria. He officially started his modelling career with Folee Lagos, a Lagos-based company. From there he got a series of business contracts from different fashion promoters within and outside the country. He soon began to secure products promotional jobs, campaigns, short videos, photo shoots in Zaria City, Kaduna State among others. As at February 2020, Adam’s Instagram followers hit the 76,893 mark. In 2018, he won the most expensive male model award at the Zazzau Fabulous Faces Award. Being a model doesn’t mean posing nude - Tukur Adam PDP and fresh heat on Tukur’s ouster Adamawa 2011: Nyako’s own men move against him