The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) and the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) are trading blames after the power transmission firm accused the DisCo of massively cutting off power supply to customers on Saturday as it rained thereby causing High Voltage (HV). The Head, Public Affairs TCN, Ndidi Mbah, in a statement alleged that as the rain began on Saturday evening, AEDC dropped its energy load to just 0.5 megawatts (MW) and 16MW from TCN 330 kilovolts (kV) substations in Katampe and Gwagwalada in the FCT.  She explained that the DisCo often offtakes around 250MW and 150MW from both substations, adding that all the company’s 33kV feeders were out due to poor distribution network which can create high voltage that may damage TCN terminal equipment. “This kind of situation will be more dangerous if the rain falls in most parts of Nigeria. TCN management is seriously disturbed because if nothing is done quickly to capitalize the DisCos, the power sector will completely collapse,” she stated. However, AEDC’s Corporate Communication Head, Oyebode Fadipe issued a statement in which the company’s Managing Director, Engr. Ernest Mupwaya was quoted as raising questions on whether it is the power sector that needed a DisCo’s capitalization or more expertise at TCN. While debunking the TCN allegations, Mupwaya quipped: “Without equivocation, TCN interruptions of AEDC network are more than what the rains have done.” He, however, admitted that some AEDC 33kV feeders tripped that Saturday as the rain began and apologized to customers for the power supply disruption. AEDC then accused TCN for not allowing coordination for setting of their feeders which could have tolerated High Voltage (HV) fluctuations. “For reasons best known to them (TCN), this coordination has been resisted till now. Thus we ask – is it a case of funds or expertise,” Mupwaya maintained. AEDC also probed the Network Protection System of TCN saying its failure has caused several system disturbances for DisCos nationwide. Mupwaya further alleged that in three days, TCN had four interface challenges that affected AEDC, including at Kubwa, Karu-Keffi line, Okene and Katampe substations. “It is very clear that TCN network is suffering from inadequate protection, as their relays do not trip during disturbances such as wire cut even when they rest on the ground thereby constituting serious danger to members of the public,” he alleged. As expected, the Assistant General Manager, Transmission of Abuja Region at TCN, Engr. Suleiman Mahmud, flawed the DisCos’ allegations, alleging that AEDC’s 33kV network was poorly constructed and that the DisCo needed capitalization to invest more in fixing its network.  Electricity users groan over outages, rationing AEDC commits over N1bn to power projects in Nasarawa System collapse: TCN restores power grid, generation hits 5,000MW