Binani Group of Companies has made a donation of 100 beds and mattresses to the Idu isolation and treatment centre set up by the FCT Administration for management of COVID-19 patients. The 100 beds from the Binani Group is the latest in a list of private sector donations to the FCTA to support efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the Territory. The Group Managing Director of Binani Group, Hajia Aminatu Dahiru Chiroma, said the donation was a show of solidarity with the FCT Administration and residents of the FCT in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. “On behalf of all the stakeholders of Binani Group of Companies, we like to particularly commend the FCT minister and the minister of state, together with their team and health officials at all levels, for their efforts in fighting the virus. We are commending you enormously and we appreciate you,” she said. The Idu Isolation and treatment center is one of the treatment centers of the FCT Administration put up specifically to fight the COVID-19 pandemic in the FCT. Receiving the items, Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, thanked the company for the kind gesture and said the donation would further boost the capacity of the center to cater for the medical needs of COVID-19 patients in the FCT. The centre already had 306 beds and the donation from the group means the centre now has 406 beds. The minister described the donation as very timely and significant, adding that it would go a long way in aiding the fight against COVID-19. Bello said, “On behalf of the FCT Administration and the entire frontline medical staff here, we assure you that these instruments that you have brought will go a long way because as I earlier mentioned, we now have a capacity, with your contribution, to be able to house over 400 patients”. He also thanked the founder of the Company, Senator Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed, who he described as a visionary business woman and philanthropist. FCTA to provide 600 bed-spaces for isolation, treatment, says Minister As COVID-19 cases rise in FCT, only 2 FG isolation centres ready in Abuja FCT minister inspects isolation, treatment facility