Automobile mechanics operating in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have decried lack of patronage since the rising cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria necessitated a federal government imposed lockdown. So, in order to keep their businesses afloat, they have created an online platform where they now render services and they also go to the homes of their customers for the same. Auto mechanic workshops have remained shut both in the city centre and satellite towns of the territory. Since the imposition of the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, the city centre and the suburbs have witnessed light traffic on the roads. Some of the operators told our reporter that the lockdown has caused a huge decline in their business, stressing that they had to resort to rendering home services to meet their families’ needs. The operator of AutoLady Garage, Wuye, Abuja, Joyce Daser Adams, said the lockdown has forced all her staff to stay at home, adding that the workshop has come up with an online initiative of training and guiding customers on simple repairs. “Our work is more of physical; fixing problems in faulty vehicles. Our work is people-related and it will expose us to possible infection of coronavirus. This is why we are at home doing nothing. “But I have received calls from customers to come and repair their vehicles. I have come up with an online initiative on which I will produce simple videos and upload which will guide customers on simple repairs. The online videos would serve as a source of income for me and the business generally. This is because it will educate my customers and other members of the public would patronise us too,” she added. Another mechanic, who operates at Kugbo Mechanic Village, Abuja, Saleh Haruna, said he has lost his source of income to the lockdown and that he had to resort to home services to sustain his family. “I cannot go and work at the workshop so I attend to customers at home to repair their vehicles. This is how I have been getting money to sustain my family under this lockdown,” he said. Abubakar Sadiq, who operates an automobile workshop at Karu Site, Abuja, also lamented that the lockdown has cut off a huge percentage of his daily income. “I usually earn not less than N10,000 daily but now that the workshop is closed, I have no chance of getting such money. In fact, I have to scout for customers close by so that I can do some repairs at their homes. The home service does not bring much money but it is manageable” he added. 3 businesses thriving under lockdown at FCT suburbs Lockdown suspension by states dangerous – Experts Playing Nero while Nigeria burns