The Federal Fire Service (FFS) says it has decontaminated premises of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Federal Inland Revenue Services (FIRS) and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Other premises fumigated are; Federal Ministry of Environment, Raw Material Research Council, Human Rights Commission, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), amongst others. The FFS had, on Thursday, 2nd of April, commenced the fumigation exercise in collaboration with the Environmental Health Officers Registration Council of Nigeria under the supervision of NEMA to ensure offices, market places and the whole environment of the FCT is decontaminated in order to contain the pandemic. The Controller General of the FFS, Ibrahim Alhaji Liman, who disclosed this at the service headquarters on Tuesday, said those premises are now free from the coronavirus. He said: “We are doing this in collaboration with the health officers. They are providing the Personal Protective equipment, chemicals and personnel while we provide the trucks and personnel as well.” According to him, the FFS was making efforts to decontaminate other public offices as well as religious and social premises within the coming weeks to ensure that the virus is completely cleared. Meanwhile, a Chinese organisation, Mutual Commitment Group, (MCG), led by the Group Managing Director, Liu Zhao Long, donated some foodstuff and facial masks to the FFS on Tuesday to strengthen its efforts in combating Covid-19 in the country. “We sincerely appreciate your efforts in keeping a secured environment so that we can fight coronavirus”, the group’s MD Long said. While noting that China is committed to ensuring coronavirus is flushed out of Nigeria, Long maintained that the world must unite to achieve success in the war against the coronavirus. “We are happy we have people like you in this trying time. With the commitment of China and the whole world, I believe we will win this war,” he added, saying one more cargo of materials for Nigeria was already on its way to the country. Audit: CBN, FIRS, Customs, INEC have queries to answer -Senate NEMA, FCTA commission ambulance bay in Lugbe Fire Service partners NOA to fight emergencies