The Petroleum Products Retail Outlets Owners Association of Nigeria (PETROAN) has appealed to the Federal Government to assist its members with soft-loans to survive the harsh effect of recent reductions in petroleum products prices. The appeal was contained in a statement jointly signed by the association’s National President, Dr. Billy Gillis-Harry and Assistant National Secretary, Ogbuefi Erasmus. While lauding the federal government for showing compassion to ordinary Nigerians, by reducing the pump price of the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), the association, however, lamented that its members had incurred huge losses that could cripple their operations, if there is no fast intervention from government. It expressed commitment of all its members to comply with government’s compassionate move of price reduction but appealed to President Buhari to direct relevant government agencies to urgently arrange an intervention fund to be managed by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and be disbursed to its members as soft loans to sustain their businesses with. The association stated: “We, the members of PETROAN, as obedient citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and partners in progress with the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, are very willing to obey and comply with the new reduction in pump price of Premium Motor Spirit as this, we are confident, will help reduce the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Nigeria Economy. “However, our association wishes to bring to the notice of the Federal Government the challenges of Petroleum Products Retail Outlets Owners in Nigeria. Our members have recorded massive losses from 19th of March 2020 when the first reduction was announced by the Federal Government. “With the further reduction in price by the Federal Government our members again will lose a sizable amount of money, which will impact negatively on their buying power, which will inevitable spiral down to reduction in patronage of the government approval petroleum products distribution depot. “We therefore wish to appeal to the Federal Government, PPPRA and other relevant stakeholder to come to our aid by urgently setting up an intervention fund to be midwifed by the CBN and disburse to our members in form of soft loans so as to cushion the effect of the PMS price reduction on the businesses of our teeming members and to guarantee replenishing re-investible capital”, PETROAN added. N125 fuel price: Partial compliance as marketers groan FG revises fuel pump price to 123.50/litre Scarcity: IPMAN  moves 300 trucks of fuel from Lagos