The Parents Teachers Association (PTA) of Ladela Schools, Lugbe, Abuja, has supported 650 indigent families in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The Executive Director of Ladela Schools, Mrs Angela Ajala, said the association was deeply concerned by the coronavirus pandemic. “We collectively formulated a comprehensive Ladela School Family Support response strategy and tasked the PTA exco to develop an accompanying implementation plan to address the COVID-19 pandemic in the FCT,’’ she said. She said through the PTA, they have given out welfare packages to 250 children in a Catholic Relief Home and 300 IDPs and the lepers’ colony in Karamajiji and a cash transfer to 100 vulnerable families. She said rice, beans, bread and garri were donated to the aforementioned while cash transfer of N5,000 each was made to 100 families to cushion the effect of the lockdown. “Despite the lockdown, the school family support continues to hold an emergency meeting of parents, teachers and management through WhatsApp to table the current needs of the people in FCT, and to collaboratively combat the coronavirus and provide projections of the infrastructural, technical and material capacity for the duration of the outbreak,” she said. Mrs Ajala added that the PTA has resolved to mobilise medical professionals and join the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The chairman, Ladela Schools Emergency Response to COVID-19 Pandemic, Aminu Usman, said: “With the recent lockdown of the FCT, it became obvious that certain people would be adversely affected and that is why we set up a committee to coordinate the activities and appealed for assistance to support low income, indigent, vulnerable and disabled persons in the FCT.” Receiving the materials, Sr. Cecilia Azuh of the Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja, lauded the effort of Ladela family support, saying they were caring for 1,200 HIV-positive persons and 200 HIV-positive children. She said the relief materials came at the right time, adding that it is a good thing to see both individuals and private organisations giving to the needy at a difficult time like this. Schools’ PTA tasked on projects execution Conditional Cash Transfer: FG doles out N20,000 each to 5,000 in FCT FG doles out N20, 000 each to 5, 000 beneficiaries in FCT