 The International Monetary Fund (IMF) on Tuesday projected that Nigeria’s economy would contract by -3.4% in 2020, implying a significant recessionary slide from the modest 2.27% real growth recorded by the country in 2019. The Breton Woods institution, which made this projection in its latest edition of the World Economic Outlook (WEO) released at the ongoing World Bank/IMF Spring Meeting in Washington D.C, however, predicted that the nation’s economy would rebound with 2.4% growth in 2021. Elaborating on the WEO report during an online press conference, IMF’s Chief Economist and Director of the Research Department, Gita Gopinath, said sub-Saharan Africa was also projected to record a negative GDP growth of -1.6 per cent, with GDP growth in the continent’s second largest economy, South Africa, also expected to weaken to -5.8 per cent. According to the current data published by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on the country’s economic performance, the overall GDP in 2019 indicated a real growth of 2.27%, compared to 1.91% in 2018 while the real GDP grew by 5.59% quarter on quarter. The bureau stated: “Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 2.55% (year-on-year) in real terms in the fourth quarter of 2019” On the global economic outlook generally, the IMF projected that the global economy would shrink by -3.0% during 2020, much worse than during the 2008-09 financial crisis and representing the steepest downturn since the great depression of the 1930s. Hinging its forecasts largely on the devastating impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on economic activities across geo-political regions globally, the Fund predicted a partial rebound of the global economy in 2021, with a projected 5.8% growth rate. However, it stated that its forecasts were marked by “extreme uncertainty” and that outcomes could be far worse, depending on the course of the COVID-19 pandemic in the months ahead. Gopinath, further clarified: “This recovery in 2021 is only partial as the level of economic activity is projected to remain below the level we had projected for 2021, before the virus hit.” She stated that under the Fund’s best-case scenario, the world would likely lose a cumulative $9 trillion in output over two years. On how best to respond to the threats associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, the IMF advised governments across the world to come up with effective policies to forestall the possibility of worse outcomes, and also adopt necessary measures to reduce contagion and protect lives are an important investment in long-term human and economic health. According to the multilateral institution, since the economic fallout is acute in specific sectors, “policymakers will need to implement substantial targeted fiscal, monetary, and financial market measures to support affected households and businesses domestically. “And internationally, strong multilateral cooperation is essential to overcome the effects of the pandemic, including to help financially constrained countries facing twin health and funding shocks, and for channeling aid to countries with weak health care systems”, the Fund advised.  Forbes disagrees with IMF over Nigeria’s economy IMF: Nigeria to witness sluggish economic growth in 2019 Nigeria’s economy will contract by -3.4% in 2020 – IMF