There has been a fire incident at the headquarters of the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) in Abuja, Daily Trust reports. This is coming about one week after similar fire incident engulfed the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation, located in Garki area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Witnesses reported that the fire incident happened on one of the floors of the seven-storey building located in Maitama area of the FCT on Wednesday morning. Confirming the incident, the Registrar-General of the CAC, Alhaji Garba Abubakar, said no document or live was lost during the fire outbreak. He said the Commission promptly alerted men of the Federal Fire Service immediately the fire was notice, and was put off quickly. This is coming about one week after similar fire incident engulfed the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation, located in Garki area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Witnesses reported that the fire incident happened on one of the floors of the seven-storey building located in Maitama area of the FCT on Wednesday morning. Confirming the incident, the Registrar-General of the CAC, Alhaji Garba Abubakar, said no document or live was lost during the fire outbreak. He said the Commission promptly alerted men of the Federal Fire Service immediately the fire was notice, and was put off quickly. “At about 10.20 hours today, one of the outer units of the split Air Conditioners on the 6th floor in the Main Building exploded due to power surge. “The sound attracted the attention of the few personnel within the premises and they immediately mobilized to quench the fire using fire extinguishers and fire hose reels within the building. “The fire had descended through the outer AC ducts to the 5th and 4th floors which necessitated a call to FCT Fire Service and they promptly responded. “The fire has since been contained. Only one unit of 2hp Split Air conditioner and the electric cabling leading to it were affected.  There was no casualty arising from the incident. “Furthermore, the Commission’s main building and all records and other vital information have not been affected by the incident,” a statement signed by the management of the commission and emailed to Daily Trust on Wednesday afternoon read. Fire in AGF’s office Fire Service puts off fire at Accountant General office page 25