The Private sector-led Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID) has ordered for 250,000 supplies for tests and another 150,000 extraction kits to fast-track molecular testing for the deadly coronavirus in the country. The coalition also disclosed that at least 1.7 million households would benefit from its food relief package as part of complementary efforts to help alleviate the effects of the lockdown and restrictions adopted by governments across the nation. Briefing journalists on the group’s activities to halt the spread of the virus in Lagos, the CACOVID leaders disclosed that the coalition had set up isolation centers in five states of Lagos, Kano, Rivers, Borno and Enugu as well as FCT, while renovations of hospitals and medical supplies are being carried out in other states. One of the leaders and Chief Executive Officer of Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF), Ms.  Zouera Youssoufou explained that all the partners in CACOVID were ready to roll out in all parts of the country having commenced building and equipping isolation centres in some states. According to her, there are currently three testing platforms for molecular testing in Nigeria, one of which is the “Open PCR machines”, which the coalition has ordered for 10 units, with eight laboratories certified to conduct COVID-19 tests. Youssoufou said, “Open PCR machine is currently the standard platform. Eight labs in Nigeria are certified to conduct COVID-19 testing; 10 new PCR machines and 150,000 extraction kits have been ordered. The other is Roche Cobus Platform with 6 Machines in Nigeria, each capable of testing 960 tests at a time. Nigeria was on track to receive 38,000 but we have ordered 250,000. 10,000 tests ordered by UNICEF have arrived on Thursday, April 16. “We also have Cepheid Gene Expert Machines – there are 400 machines installed in the country. 250 are expected to be functional with trained lab technicians. Cepheid has developed a COVID-19 testing cartridge that has received FDA approval, and will begin shipping to Africa in two weeks. We have ordered 250,000 cartridges and expect shipment receipt in two weeks.” In his remarks, Group Managing Director of Access Bank Plc, Mr. Herbert Wigwe, said the coalition knew the fight against coronavirus was not going to be easy but would require collaborative efforts of all, adding that the group has tackling the source from three strategic levels over the weeks. The banker clarified: “One, it was clear from beginning that no one institution can go it alone, so we solicit everybody’s cooperation in tackling this scourge. Two, while several measures are being taken to stop the spread, including lockdowns, restriction, social distancing, there is the need to address the hunger. How do we cater for the feeding needs of the people if these measures are to be effective?” Wigwe explained that the third level was the thought leadership aspect of the plan which is to tackle the post-pandemic aspect.  According to him, “a lot of businesses have been badly affected and economies have been disrupted. How do we get them back to life after we might have defeated the coronavirus?” In his remarks, the Chief Executive Officer, MTN Nigeria, Mr. Ferdi Moolman, urged other private sector organisations which are yet to identify with CACOVID in the onerous task to join hands and make their modest contributions. BOI donates N700m relief fund to Lagos, FCT BoI donates N700m to COVID-19 relief fund COVID-19: Private sector coalition to build hospitals nationwide