The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has constituted a ‘NESI Situation Room’ to reduce the risk of service disruptions in electricity supply by the 11 Distribution Companies (DisCos) nationwide. The team, which is led by the Commissioners, top management staff of the commission, is joined by the System Operator (SO), the arm of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) which operates the national power grid. The industry regulator stated that the decision was in consideration of adverse impact of the current movement restrictions as part of the efforts to curb the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19). To ensure effectiveness of the team, it disclosed that a “Directive on Continuity of Service in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) has been issued to all operators with a view to ensuring that their respective service continuity plans are activated immediately.” The plans include contingency arrangements to accommodate essential staff on-site at TCN, the Generation Companies (GenCos) and the DisCos; health and isolation facilities for a localized outbreak of COVID-19; provision of vital resources including food, medical supply, and other essentials. NERC also directed the operators to have emergency sourcing of essential spare parts and consumables, plans for monitoring of critical assets and other infrastructure, arrangement for early clearance of technical faults and alternative channels for engaging with customers. The Commission urged the public to leverage on the “Situation Room” using the virtual platforms and call centres to directly contact the Commission on customer care issues, with emphasis on prolonged outages of power supply. As of Monday, a tweet from NERC said its officials were at the NESI Situation Room monitoring the electricity supply situation across the eleven electricity distribution companies. Through the virtual platform, the officials had discussions with representatives of the DisCos. The regulator also circulated the live meeting on it social media platforms, giving electricity consumers the opportunity to submit their complaints, while also providing 11 call numbers for customers of the 11 DisCos, two contact numbers for team at the situation room to receive text and WhatsApp messages and email addresses for customers to send in their complaints.  NERC warns Discos over electricity load NERC warns Discos over electricity load NERC tasks DisCos on improved electricity services