Bello El-Rufai, the son of Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, has tendered an apology over a controversial comment he made on Twitter six days ago in which he threatened to rape the mother of a Twitter user by the name Consigliere with the handle @thanos_zer. Daily Trust reports that what started as a political debate when Bello El-Rufai described US President, Donald Trump as incompetent over his handling of COVID-19 pandemic later degenerated into personal attacks that included ethnic slurs between Bello and a Twitter handler. Consigliere, had tackled Bello when he insisted that the American President was more competent than Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari and Bello’s father, the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai. However, Bello had reigned insults on Consigliere and sent a private message to him that stated; “Tell your mother I’m passing her to my friends tonight. No Igbo sounds please! Tueh,” Bello further stated that Buhari was completing the Second Niger Bridge in the South-East, a feat which former President Goodluck Jonathan could not attain despite being supported by Igbo. Many people on Twitter had expressed outrage when Bello’s mother, Hadiza El-Rufai who was tagged in some of the tweets stated that; “All you people talking about @B_ELRUFAI, Don’t @ me. Sow the wind, reap the whirlwind. All is fair in love and war. My belief: Respect everyone, but take no shit from anyone. I didn’t see any threats of rape. I would never condone that.” The Kaduna State First Lady later tweeted, “When I posted the tweet below, I assumed it was just the usual Twitter gbas-gbos. Having read the tweets chronologically, I have had conversations with Bello. Never ever should sexual abuse be employed as ammunition in public/private exchanges, no matter the provocation.” She had tendered an apology saying that having gone through her son’s tweets chronologically, she has had a conversation with him and stressed that she would never condone sexual abuse in any shape or form. She further stated that; “I can see how my tweet may have come across, and I apologise to those who were offended by it. I say once again, that I’d never condone sexual abuse in any shape or form.”  My apology. pic.twitter.com/t3JKHeJNY0 — Bello El-Rufai (@B_ELRUFAI) April 17, 2020  However, six days since the incident, Bello on Friday tendered an apology on Twitter stating that: “A few days ago, I made a comment that was wrong, unbecoming and contrary to the values on which I was raised. I wish to withdraw that statement and apologise to the gentleman concern for the hurtful comment. I also apologise for appearing to attack an entire ethnic group for the misdeed of one person.” He further stated; “I regret the sexual innuendo in the private message and apologise unreservedly for it. I wish to state very strongly that the statement was made during the heat of the moment and I wish to put the record straight that I do not condone sexual violence; I certainly do not believe that there can be any justification for gender-based crimes.” He said he has since apologised to his mum and the women in his life but stated that he understand that the intensity around the matter stems partly from his surname adding that his mistake in smearing an ethnic tribe has been replicated by others who have attacked his parents and family due to his action. Bello stated that is recent conduct had fallen short of the standard of decency and strong values he was raised with and apologised to the general public, adding that he would strive to be better. El-Rufai’s wife blasts son for threatening to rape someone’s mother Despite public outrage, El-rufai's son defends derogatory slurs Controversy over Governor Yahaya Bello’s coronavirus status