No fewer than 620 persons who were arrested by the police for violating the lockdown order of the federal government were at the weekend convicted by the Lagos State Mobile court. Out of the 620 persons, 95 of them were arrested onboard seven buses said to be heading to Ilorin, the Kwara State Capital. It was learnt that others were arrested by Policemen on enforcement duty from different parts of the metropolis. It was also gathered that all the violators had nothing to indicate that they were allowed to move around during this lockdown period. Also, the enforcement team from the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) arrested one Suleiman Abubakar, the Imam of Sheik Central Mosque, Mile 12 Ketu, for holding evening prayers (Maghrib and Isha) in the mosque with a large number of worshippers, in violation of the social distancing regulations. In the same vein, 10 persons were arrested by operatives from Maroko Police Station for organising a party at Lekki Garden, which contradicts the social distancing order. They were arraigned in court on a three-count charge. They were found guilty as charged and sentenced to six months imprisonment and community service, to run concurrently. Similarly, 121 violators of lockdown were arrested in different parts of the state and charged to court. They were awarded fines ranging from N5000 and N10,000 and two hours community services. Also, policemen from Idimu Station, acting on intelligence, arrested 39 suspects in a hotel in the area. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana said as at the time of their arrest, they were found to be clubbing and involved in striptease. This, he said, is in total violation of the lockdown order and social distancing regulations. Elkana, while giving an update on the enforcement order of the state government, said that on April 21, 2020 at about 10pm, acting on information, operatives from Deton Police station, arrested 95 interstate travellers at Bhojson area, Ebute Metta. Elkana said that at the time of their arrest, the 95 offenders were in seven commercial buses. COVID-19: 202 persons arrested for violating stay-at-home order Flouting COVID-19 order: Nollywood actress, husband plead guilty, get N200,000 fine FCTA convicts 20 for lockdown violations