Kano city stood still yesterday as the residents  complied with the stay-at-home order imposed by the state government to check the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown which began at 10pm Thursday was generally complied with throughout the metropolis, our correspondents report. Prayers were not conducted at Juma’at mosques in seven of the eight metropolitan local government areas visited, and at the time of filing this report, no mosque was reported to have violated the order. Our reporters who visited Mukhtar Abbas Juma’at mosque, Farm Centre, Ansaru-Sunnah Masjid in Fagge, Sheihk Ahmad Tijjani Juma’at mosque, Kofar Mata, Wambai Juma’at mosque, Kofar Wambai and Sheikh Zarban Juma’at mosque in Yankaba observed that they were all closed. A few however observed Zuhr prayer in small neigbourhood mosques across the city. Major markets visited, including the Abubakar Rimi market in Sabongari, Kwari textiles market, Kurmi market and Tarauni market were all silent. Water vendors were at different areas of the city carrying out their business without hindrance. The police, Federal Road Safety Corps and KAROTA personnel drafted to enforce the lockdown order were seen at strategic locations mounting barricades and checking vehicles. Most of the vehicles sighted by our reporters were believed to be for essential service providers including hospital staff, security and journalists, among others with some residents peeping through their windows to catch a glimpse of the almost silent city. Staff of the State emergency Management Agency (SEMA) went round the city in case of any emergency. Eight people who were said to have arrived from Abuja were arrested at Kantin Kwari market and taken to an isolation centre for medical examination. Some small streets especially within the neigbourhood were converted to football fields by some youths, thereby defying the order and social distancing advice. At Hotoro, Kawo, Tinshama and Ladanai in Nassarawa Local Government, there was a total compliance as shops and other businesses remained closed. Security personnel were seen patroling streets around some mosques to ensure compliance. No one was harassed by the security personnel at the time of Daily Trust’s visit. Residents of Karkasara, Hausawa Quarters, Gyadi-Gyadi as well as Zoo Road also complied with the order and only a few filling stations opened for business. A watchman, Abba Sulaiman, said if the lockdown persists, the ordinary people would suffer. “I have a little to buy what to eat today and probably tomorrow, but anytime beyond that, I may not have anything left,” he said. As COVID-19 cases jump to 81: Large gatherings persist in states We’re still burying victims of Kano blasts – Graveyard workers Friday prayer ban: Kaduna mosque reverts to daily prayers