The Leadway Assurance Company Limited says it is collaborating with other insurance companies to provide life insurance cover to the tune of N5 billion for all frontline healthcare workers battling to save the lives of those infected by the coronavirus. It also announced that it has donated Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) materials, COVID-19 test kits and foodstuff worth N135million as part of its efforts to support optimal testing and treatment of COVID-19 cases as well as access to nutrition in the country during the quarantine period. The company had, before this, made a sizeable donation as part of funds being raised by the Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA) in its NIA COVID-19 Support Fund. The donations align with the company’s value of service and customer focus, it said in a statement on Sunday. The donations, it added, would aid the government in combating the spread of the pandemic in the country. Commenting on the company’s gesture, its Managing Director, Mr. Tunde Hassan-Odukale, said “We understand the magnitude of the risk taken by health workers who have elected to support the government to take care of Nigerians in the wake of a pandemic that is ravaging worldwide. “We salute their tenacity, resilience and professionalism as they battle COVID-19, putting their lives on the line to ensure that Nigerians are adequately cared for during this period. “We understand the weight of their duties and hope that this support reassures them and indeed all Nigerians that we are in this together.” It will be recalled that prior to the donations, Leadway Assurance had been in the forefront of sharing critical information on the pandemic, partnering with “Doctors on Air” on radio to bring the Lagos state Health Commissioner, Prof. Akin Abayomi, in a special edition to discuss the coronavirus pandemic, the statement noted. It also said Leadway was also one of the first companies to initiate its #WorkFromHome policy before the State pronouncement, ensuring seamless remote service via its several alternative channels while disseminating COVID-19 prevention tips in major languages within its areas of operations in addition to English, French and Pidgin, highlighting the NCDC’s COVID-19 helplines on radio and on all its social media channels. Leadway Assurance launches multi-feature mobile app COVID-19: Top things President Buhari said in his special broadcast Coronavirus: NMA rejects invitation of Chinese medical team