The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello, has urged political leaders to use their political structures and sensitise the people in the rural communities on COVID-19. “As community leaders, political leaders and our elected representatives, it is your duty to use your existing structures, your tentacles, within all the communities to sensitize and inform the general public of what every person needs to do because without this joint effort and community participation, there is no way the medical efforts alone will be successful”. According to a statement by the minister’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Anthony Ogunleye, Bello stated this during a meeting with the FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, Senator Phillip Aduda, Senator representing the FCT, Rep Micah Jiba (AMAC/Bwari) Federal Constituency, Rep. Hassan Sokodabo, (Kuje/Kwali/ Gwagwalada/Abaji Federal Constituency, the FCT Chairmen of APC and PDP, the FCT Commissioner of police, other security chiefs as well as senior members of the FCTA bureaucracy led by the Permanent Secretary, Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa. The minister reminded the political leaders that should the virus reach the grassroots level and attain community wide spread, it would become extremely difficult to fight. He therefore appealed to them to resuscitate their political structures and influence to sensitise the populace in the fight against the virus. Malam Bello added, “I’m appealing to you to reactivate all your political structures in the 62 wards of the FCT. Use all your men and women that you used during your campaigns; use them now to help us fight this pandemic because it is crucial and that is why we call upon you to support us.” In her remarks, the FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, said arrangements have been put in place to ensure that only those who were entitled to the palliatives would actually receive them. She said the FCTA was working with the grassroots leaders made up of councilors, ward leaders, civil society, youth groups as well religious organisations in this regard. She added that 70 vehicles would soon be deployed to transport food stuff from five stores to vulnerable communities. Senator Aduda donated 1000 bags of rice and 150 cartons of hand sanitisers after the meeting. We’ll use resources to rebuild Nigeria - Buhari Benue entrepreneurs honour FCT minister, Rep Hembe Benue enterpreneurs honour FCT minister, rep