Ondo state governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has confirmed four additional cases of COVID-19. This brings the total number of confirmed cases in the state to seven. The new cases incude a murder suspect arraigned in Akure for the murder of a politician’s daughter. Akeredolu said security agents who had contact with the suspect are in isolation. He said “One of the cases involves a recently arraigned suspect in the murder of Mrs Funke Olakunrin, Pa Fasoranti’s Daughter. “The Commissioner of police has been duly informed and the line tracing of police officers and others in the SARs facility where he was kept has started and their specimens are being collected. “The suspect has been isolated from others and will be moved to the Infectious Disease Hospital, IDH, for treatment. The commissioner of police has assured the state that there will be adequate security around the IDH premises to prevent his escape and while on treatment, he will be manacled to the bed. Among the new cases is a police officer who was said to have sneaked into the state from Lagos . Governor Akeredolu said ” The case of this individual who is a police officer is unique. He was tested in Lagos but came to Ondo state while awaiting his results . Upon receiving a positive result, he claimed to have returned back to Lagos. “According to him, he waited a few days in Lagos to be picked up. When this failed, he panicked and rushed back to Akure for treatment. While we appreciate the confidence reposed in our facilities, We do find it most reckless on the part of the officer of the Law to risk the lives of others. “I am most disappointed in the level of porosity of the entry points to the state. The police officer should know better. “I have contacted the commissioner of police to double up on securing our entry points. Another case is also said to be a police driver. Akeredolu visits ex-Ondo deputy governor’s home over daughter’s death Coronavirus: Ondo's index case is a military officer Murder accusations trail Benue gov’s aides