Tin-Can Island Port Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) says it generated a total of N31.7 billion as revenue in the month of March 2020, representing about N5.220 billion higher than its collections in the same month in 2019. The Customs Area Controller, Comptroller Musa Baba Abdullahi, who made this disclosure yesterday during a media briefing, said that when coronavirus broke out in the country, the command set a roadmap for the actualisation of its revenue generation mandate, bearing in mind the expectations of the government from the NCS, as a major revenue generation agency. Abdullahi explained that one of the strategies by the command to meet the expectation was the mobilisation of critical stakeholders through series of roundtables and consultations towards ensuring that trade facilitation is given a boost, in line with global best practices. According to him, during the meetings he solicited the support of all stakeholders in the trade value chain, particularly on the need for them to strictly comply with the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government. He said pursuant to the discussions with stakeholders, the command eliminated all forms of bureaucratic bottlenecks and obstacles, which might hinder access to information and intervention in critical areas. The customs officer linked the improved revenue of the command to the consultation with various stakeholders in the trade value chain and commitment to improved operations at all levels. The comptroller said:  “We are optimistic that all things being equal, the operational templates that has been put in place, will surely lead to monumental revenue collection. “On the issue of the global pandemic, we are glad to inform you that our sensitisation campaign on the subject, began with the news of the outbreak of the disease in Wuhan China in November 2019,following a circular from customs headquarters, which  compelled  all commands to  commence awareness and education on ways of containing the virus . “Following the report of the Index case in Nigeria, the command began even more intensive and aggressive campaign, with the visit by the zonal medical personnel of the service, led by Dr. Bello, in collaboration with our resident medical personnel”, Abdullahi added. Tin-Can Customs generates N78.8bn from January to March Tin-Can Customs rakes in N130bn revenue in six months Tin Can port generates N31.9bn in 1 month