A leading disinfectant producer has issued a strong warning not to use its products on the human body after US President Donald Trump suggested they could potentially be used to treat coronavirus. Reckitt Benckiser, which owns Lysol and Dettol, said “under no circumstance” should its products be injected or ingested. President Trump faces a backlash over his comments at a briefing on Thursday. Disinfectants are hazardous substances and can be poisonous if ingested. Even external exposure can be dangerous to the skin, eyes and respiratory system. Mr Trump’s comments have been heavily criticised by doctors and have generated a huge online response. They have provoked hundreds of thousands of comments and caused well-known cleaning brands to trend on social media. Reckitt Benckiser, which also owns the brands Vanish and Cillit Bang, said its products should not be administered “through injection, ingestion or any other route”. “Our disinfectant and hygiene products should only be used as intended and in line with usage guidelines. Please read the label and safety information,” the company said in a statement. During Thursday’s White House coronavirus task force briefing, an official presented the results of US government research that indicated coronavirus appeared to weaken faster when exposed to sunlight and heat. The study also showed bleach could kill the virus in saliva or respiratory fluids within five minutes, and isopropyl alcohol could kill it even more quickly. Mr Trump then hypothesised about the possibility of using a “tremendous ultraviolet” or “just very powerful light” on or even inside the body as a potential treatment. “And then I see the disinfectant where it knocks it out in a minute. One minute,” he said. “And is there a way we can do something like that, by injection inside or almost a cleaning? “Because you see it gets in the lungs and does a tremendous number on them, so it’d be interesting to check that,” he said. (BBC) Trump under fire for suggesting injecting disinfectant to treat Covid-19 US death toll tops 50,000 as some Georgia businesses reopen How to protect yourself from infection