The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), said all government agencies are working in synergy to ensure that activities at the nation’s seaports are not grounded. The agency’s Deputy Director, Public Relations, Isichei Osamgbi, said as part of the measures taken to ensure sustained operations of the ports is that  the welfare of seafarers are being looked into. This is even as the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA) seems to have outlined the operations of seafarers who would be on duty during the 14 days restriction of movement issued by the Federal Government. President Mohammadu Buhari had on Sunday issued a 14-day restriction of movement in Lagos and Ogun States as well as the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to prevent further spread of the dreaded coronavirus nationwide. The President however, exempted some persons on essential duties from the restriction. Those exempted are health workers, Policemen, Military personnel, those in the telecom services, journalist security men as well as manufacturers of food, those in the distribution section etc. Activities at the nation’s seaports are also expected to be open during the period. But the welfare of seafarers who work onboard vessels was not clearly defined. To take care of the gap, the management of NPA in its guidelines directed that seafarers should also be classified as those on essential duty. Otunba Kunle Folarin, Chairman of the Seafarers Board, in a telephone chat with Daily Trust said that though the Nigerian Immigration Service had stopped issuance of Port Pass to seafarers, but that special pass is issued when the need arises. He said that in the case of getting fresh supplies, crew on board vessels going to high risk countries would have factored the restriction order into their movement to get more supplies to aid their journeys. Foreigners dominate seafaring in Nigeria : We’ll change that - NIMASA NIMASA pushes for better pay for seafares Sea robbery: NPA, Navy join forces to tackle activities at illegal jetties, terminals