The Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP) in Ekiti State has appealed to the state and federal governments to consider its members in the various palliative measures that had been initiated to cushion the effects of the lockdown declared to check the spread of the coronavirus scourge in the state. The NUP chairman, Elder Ayo Kumapayi, and the Secretary, Azeez Agbaje, in a release they jointly signed yesterday, explained that the request for a palliative for pensioners became necessary due to the extension of the lockdown by two weeks. According to the NUP leaders, the lockdown has subjected many pensioners to hunger and untold hardship, thus resulting in health complications and even death to some of them. “While we commend our governments for their efforts to cushion the effects of this pandemic on the vulnerable citizens, it is important to call their attention to the plight of our members. “We have recorded several deaths of our members since this lockdown began. Most of them from 70 years and above are now in critical condition due to hunger. “The lockdown is a double jeopardy on our members because some of them are still being owed pension by the federal and state governments, while their children who were supposed to provide for their food are also trapped in the lockdown. “In addition, many Good Samaritans have deserted our members based on the directives of government on the need for people to avoid contact with the aged for now. “It is very important that our government reaches out to our members through the route used for the payment of pension and allowances, or pass through the union so as to save us from untimely death,” they said. The statement added that the cash transfer scheme of the federal government ought to have captured pensioners as they are among the vulnerable persons in the society based on their age and health. “We are begging our government, corporate bodies and individuals to save our souls and reach out to our members,” the NUP leaders said. Include us in palliatives, pensioners beg Buhari Sokoto NUP lauds Tambuwal for prompt payment 111 railway pensioners not on payroll since 2005 NUP