The chairman of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria, Barrister Zikrullah Kunle Hassan, has encouraged intending pilgrims to make fare deposits for the 2020 Hajj exercise. Hassan, who spoke in an interview with the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria in his office yesterday, expressed optimism that the 2020 Hajj might hold. Saudi Arabian Hajj Minister Mohammed Banten had on April 1 said the Kingdom was concerned about the safety of pilgrims, urging those getting ready for the spiritual journey to delay concluding contracts. “Saudi Arabia is fully ready to serve pilgrims and Umrah seekers in all circumstances. “Under the current circumstances, as we’re talking about the global pandemic, from which we have asked God to save us, the kingdom is keen to protect the health of Muslims and citizens. “So we have asked our brother Muslims in all countries to wait before concluding contracts (with tour operators) until the situation is clear,” Banten had told the state TV. But the NAHCON boss yesterday said indicators from the Saudi Arabian Ministry of Health projected that the Kingdom would hopefully witness a decline of the COVID19 infection from April 21 and possible eradication of the virus by May 2020. “This explains why NAHCON has not stopped preparations towards 2020 Hajj,” a statement from the commission quoted Hassan to have said. He stressed that the situation might warrant a reduction of pilgrims’ number as a strategy to manage the COVID19 pandemic. “Should this happen, slots will be offered to intending pilgrims on first come first served formula”, he said. Hassan also encouraged intending pilgrims to pray and imbibe all the necessary physical, mental and spiritual readiness towards making the Hajj. He noted that NAHCON had made plans in case the Hajj did not hold, adding that all arrangements entered with Saudi Arabian service providers were legally backed, “hence the commission does not anticipate any monetary losses on its side.” Covid-19: Saudi Arabia urges intending pilgrims to delay Hajj bookings Coronavirus threatens 2020 Hajj Plagues, politics and conflict: Hajj cancellations over the centuries