Traditional rulers under the aegis of Traditional Rulers of Oil Producing Communities in Nigeria (TROMPCON) have called on oil companies to remit their three percent contributions to Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) or leave the region. The TROMPCON Secretary, Oba Dr. Obafemi Ogbaro, who is also the Odoka of Ogbaro kingdom, made the call in a statement issued on behalf of the group on Tuesday. Ogbaro said the people of the Niger Delta region needed to cooperate with the Minister of the Niger Delta, Sen. Godswill Akpabio and the newly inaugurated Interim Management Committee headed by the acting Managing Director, Prof. Kemebradikumo Pondei in delivering the mandate of the commission to the people of the region. The royal father, who also urged the commission’s directors to cooperate and work with the IMC committee to deliver on its mandate, explained that such cooperation was necessary  irrespective of their political, religious, ethnic and social leanings. He stated: “We are not unaware of the activities of many of the redeployed directors of the commission and others inciting their paid lackeys to publish falsehoods about the minister and the new Interim Management Committee. “We are particularly miffed about the sponsored spate of blackmail, backbiting and persistent bad press and attacks on the personality of the minister and by extension the President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari. “This is not only counterproductive, it also portends an ill omen as it imposes on our people as the proverbial grass that always suffer where two elephants clash,” Oba Ogbaro said. He advised all parties to eschew all forms of accusations and counter accusations of fraud, pending the outcome of the audit report ordered by President Buhari on the affairs of the commission. While expressing the traditional rulers’ appreciation to the commission for providing support the people in the region during the ongoing lockdown, the traditional ruler also said, “we feel encouraged by speedy payment of allowances to our sons and daughters studying in the diaspora after years of neglect; the ongoing verification of contractor claims; and expeditious commitment to move the commission to its befitting and permanent headquarters, all in the space of the short time since the inauguration of the IMC. He also charged the National Assembly, through its relevant committees in both chambers, to use its oversight powers to eradicate the evil practices from the past, of forcing the Commission to execute projects of little or no bearing to its mandate or the region in a bid to enrich vested interests, within and without the National Assembly. On the remittance of the 3% contribution by the oil firms to the commission, Oba Ogbaro said: “They should rather work tirelessly to expedite the budget and prompt release of funds to the commission, more importantly the NASS must bring to bear the full might of their powers on the oil companies that consistently flout the law by not remitting their three percent contributions to the NDDC thereby denying the commission of much needed funds to execute its mandate. “We are ready to cooperate with the NDDC, NASS and the ministry to sue these companies and stop their operations in the region, if they continue to fail to comply”, he assured. 2013: NDDC presents N316bn budget to lawmakers Understanding Niger Delta region problem NDDC is a sink hole