Residents of Kano State were thrown into deep shock after another wave of mass deaths yesterday claimed the lives of a number of prominent personalities. Very early in the morning of Saturday, graveyards across the state were streaming with groups of bereaved families, friends and relatives who went to bury their dead, a situation that is fast becoming a daily routine in the city, which has recently been hit by a “strange ailment.” The state has seen a spike in deaths from the sickness, which residents likened to severe malaria and typhoid. On Tuesday, Daily Trust reported that over 150 had been buried in three days at three cemeteries in the state. But the state government denied there was a mass death and promised to investigate. Interviews with grave diggers and undertakers in the state have, however, continued to paint a disturbing picture about a series of burials taking place at cemeteries across the ancient city, with combined funeral prayers being held “because of the numbers.” Some of the personalities that were buried yesterday include the proprietor and Chief Executive Officer of Hassan Gwarzo Secondary School and former chairman of the National Economic Intelligence Committee (NEIC) during the Obasanjo administration from 1999 to 2003; former Grand Khadi of the state, Alhaji Dahiru Rabi’u; former Executive Secretary, State Universal Basic Education (SUBEB), Alhaji Adamu Isyaku Dal; head of North-West 1 zone of First Bank, Abdullahi Lawan; former Triumph newspapers editor, Malam Musa Tijjani; Professor Aliyu Dikko of Physiology Department, Bayero University Kano, Alhaji Garba Dambatta; a younger brother to the late Alhaji Magaji Dambatta and the mother of famous Kannywood artist, Ado Gwanja, among many others. Although Daily Trust on Sunday was not able to verify the cause of death of all the deceased persons, residents fear they might not be unconnected with the “unknown” ailment that has been ravaging the state. Adamu Balarabe, a nephew to the former Grand Khadi, said his uncle was down with catarrh for only two days before he passed away on Saturday morning. He told Daily Trust on Sunday that the deceased’s elder sister, Hajiya Umma, and his niece, Shamsiyya Mustafa, also died yesterday and were all buried at Dandolo cemetery in Kano metropolis. “Shamsiyya died of breast cancer, but Hajiya Umma took ill after the death of her son four weeks ago,’’ he said. Asked if he had witnessed many burials at the graveyard, he said, “We went for their burial around 9.30am and the cemetery attendants told us that we were the 22nd group that came for burial that morning.” Daily Trust on Sunday learnt that First Bank had ordered the closure of its main branch along Lagos Street in Kano for fumigation, following the death of its zonal head. The bank, it was gathered, took the decision because the office of the late senior manager is located in the building. It also asked its staff who had come in contact with him to self-isolate. Hussaini Dambatta, one of the many people under the care of the late Garba Dambatta, said the deceased was the last surviving guardian in the family. “We are mourning the last elderly member of the family. He had been a father to all of us and as God willed, he is no more today, may his soul rest in peace,” he said. Also, Musa Gwanja described the death of Ado Gwanja’s mother as a vacuum that can’t be filled. “Hajiya died during this period when the elderly are dying, to us it is an epidemic and as Muslims we believe she has attained the shahada,” he said. The high-profile deaths became the topic of social media discussions across various platforms in parts of the country, with many users calling on the state government to quickly assuage the fears gripping the state by finding a lasting solution to the issue. 150 people die in Kano in 3 days FG warns Kano residents against buying 'COVID-19 vaccine' Funeral prayers for multiples as Kano death toll mounts