The United Nations (UN) on Thursday received delivery of vital health supplies to support the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. The UN, in a statement from its media unit, said the supplies are made up of 10,000 test kits, 15 oxygen concentrators, and various personal protective equipment (PPE), vaccines, IEHK/PEP kits, and other vital health supplies. It said the supplies will support the Nigerian Government’s COVID-19 Response Plan and UNICEF’s work with children and families in Nigeria. The supplies will also support the Government of Nigeria, through the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC), to prevent and respond to the COVID-19 pandemic in affected states across the country. The supplies are co-financed by the European Union (EU) and IHS Nigeria, the Nigerian subsidiary of IHS Towers. Additional COVID-19 response supplies are expected in a UN joint flight to be delivered to Nigeria in the coming days. “We know that to limit the spread of the virus, it is important to test as many people as possible, especially those with recent travel history and those who came into contact with travelers. “These test kits will support Nigeria’s drive to control the transmission of COVID-19 infections and support the Government’s ongoing strong efforts to protect the country from an escalating pandemic,” said Edward Kallon, the UN’s Resident Coordinator in Nigeria. Since the outbreak of the coronavirus in Nigeria in late February, the UN has been supporting the Government of Nigeria to respond to the pandemic through risk communications and community engagement, infection prevention and control, epidemiology/surveillance and management of coronavirus cases, Kallon added. “Working closely together with the Government and other partners, including the private sector, is the surest way of preventing and containing the COVID-19 pandemic. “We are grateful for the support of the EU and IHS in getting these vital supplies to strengthen the UN’s efforts in helping the Government of Nigeria to address the COVID-19 challenge,” said Edward Kallon. COVID-19: UN launches emergency response in N/East, IDPs APMT donates N100m to support COVID-19 pandemic fight APMT promises to sustain operations at Apapa, Onne ports