With last Thursday’s World Bank projection of a bleak outlook for African economies in the face of the increasingly devastating impact of the Coronavirus pandemic and yesterday forecast that Nigeria’s economy will contract by -3.4% in 2020, economic analysts listed some steps the Federal Government should take to save the economy from plunging into a recessionary abyss. The World Bank had in its latest Africa’s Pulse, the World Bank’s twice-yearly economic update for the region, predicted that Sub-Saharan Africa’s (SSA’s) growth would slump to all time low of -5.1% this year, pushing the region into its first recession in 25 years. According to the report, this sluggish growth trend is expected to cost the region about between $37 billion and $79 billion in output losses in 2020. Similarly, the IMF on Tuesday projected that Nigeria’s economy would contract by -3.4% in 2020, implying the reversal of the modest 2.27% real growth recorded in 2019 and potentially deepest level of depression of the economy in several decades. Reacting to the World Bank’s report, the Country Director of PLAN International Nigeria, Dr. Hussaini Abdu, said the implications of the pandemic for the Nigerian economy would be far-reaching socio-economically, with the ordinary Nigerians bearing much of the burden. The development expert and civil advocate, believed that as projected by the Breton Woods institution, the volatility of the international oil prices being the main foreign exchange revenue source for the country will undermine efforts by the government to sustain the modest growth of recorded in the nation’s GDP last year. He said: “The implications for SSAs’ economies are far-reaching, especially for countries like Nigeria with very deep poverty and inequality levels. “The World Bank’s projections of depressive economic trend in Africa have the potential of deepening the poverty, inequality and unemployment levels in Nigeria, especially when analysed within the context of the fact that when even we were recording growth in our GDP over the years, the poverty, unemployment and inequality rates were worrisome. So, we can only foresee a bleak outlook for Nigeria’s economy in the months ahead”, Abdu predicted. Similarly, an economic analyst, investment coach and financial literacy specialist, Dr. Timi Olubiyi, noted that the sharp fall in the growth projection of Sub-Saharan Africa indicated a slip into economic recession, adding that since Nigeria plays a big role as the biggest economy in terms of nominal GDP in Africa, the recession will worsen the already alarming poverty and unemployment rates in the country with the attendant negative implications for the nation’s political and economic stability. He said: “We currently have deficits in housing, water, sanitation, food, health care, and education, among others in Nigeria, this current reality of a looming recession will more than likely spike up the level of these shortfalls, including a surge in the prevalence rate of crimes and criminality in the country.” Commenting on the IMF projections for the economy, a chartered banker and financial inclusion expert, Mr. Rogers Nwoke, said it was too early to start talking about the level of real growth of the economy when the pandemic is yet to frontally and completely curtailed. Nwoke, who is President of National Association of Microfinance Banks (NAMB) quipped: “It will be mere conjectural to talk about how the economy will fare this year when the monitoring and evaluation of the pandemic is not nationwide now. If this is done and COVID-19 is finally over, then you can fully assess the impact and project how the economy will fare in the months ahead” Commenting on how the Federal Government could proactively respond to COVID-19-triggered  projected recession in the nation’s economy, an economist and lecturer at Lagos Business School Dr. Bongo Adi, told Daily Trust that  the effective way Nigeria can mitigate the impact of negative growth is for both the private sector and the public sector partner and drive growth. He said: “The disruption has triggered an economic transition from the hard brick and mortar systems to more digital systems. So, systems that may survive could be firms that are fully digitalized and managed online. Those that cannot, will suffer.” While noting that the outlook portends job losses across a broad spectrum of the economy, the expert recommended that “the solution has to be by concerted efforts by the private sector, the public sector, NGOs and so on. Everybody needs to come to the table and protect jobs. “This is a real challenge to public private partnerships to solve this challenge on equal terms. The government can also give tax breaks and provide incentives. This is also an opportunity to fully deregulate the downstream sector. “Again this is the time for the government to strengthen fiscal federalism and give it the right push. Also the CBN needs to liberalized the monetary policy. The Coronavirus is telling you nobody is an island”, the economist advocated.  COVID-19: Africa to fall into first recession in 25 years - World Bank GDP: World Bank differs with FG’s growth forecast World Bank forecasts depression for Africa in 2020