Tragedy was averted on Thursday afternoon when a massive billboard allegedly belonging to Spar shopping mall fell and damaged 13 vehicles belonging to its customers. The incident happened at 3pm on Thursday, according to the mall manager, Mrs Kemi Daniel, who added that the collapse was with a terrifying bang, which sent thousands of customers scampering for safety. The signboard placed atop the roof of the massive mall fell on the vehicles, blocking the exit section of the mall. Mrs Daniel said they were still investigating what would have caused the signage to collapse suddenly, adding that they have pacified the affected customers by assuring them that they will repair the 12 vehicles, just as one was not fatally damaged. “We are grateful to God that nobody, none of our esteemed customers was killed or injured.  We are picking the bills for the overall repairs of the affected 12 vehicles. “We have also assured the owners of the vehicles that we shall provide mobility for them throughout the period their vehicle would be under repair. “We shall look at issue of compensations to the affected persons but they should give us time,” she said. One of the customers, who spoke to Daily Trust, said he might sue them for lack of safety measures. Meanwhile the management and owners of the Calabar Mall and SPAR in a statement it issued Thursday evening, stated that the External Advertisement Board located by the parking of the mall collapsed, possibly due to heavy winds, stressing that nobody was hurt in the incident, but unfortunately a few vehicles were damaged. It explained that “the collapse of the billboard happened in the evening of April 2, 2020, as a Safety Conscious organization, we have hitherto ensured that the entire mall is built to leading standards. The External billboard collapsed and thankfully, nobody was hurt.” “As an organization, we will want to reiterate that the mall is installed with the best safety measure and our safety equipment are top-notch because the safety of all of our tenants and shoppers is of utmost importance to us,” The statement added that, “the Calabar Mall and SPAR supermarket remain open to customers and is safe, and we continue to do our best to ensure that our stores are well-stocked to meet our customers’ demands”. Many petrol tanker fires ravage lives, fortunes Stallion Motors launches Sokoto service centre Benin Mall Fire: Obaseki assures of probe