A Lagos-based foam manufacturer, Mouka, has donated 200 mattresses to victims of the Abule Ado explosion in Lagos. The company also donated 500 mattresses to the state government towards equipping the isolation centres the government had set up for the treatment of the coronavirus pandemic. The company said it was donating the items as part of its corporate social responsibility to bring relief to the victims. The donation to Abule Ado victims was made through the Lagos State government to affected families in dire need of assistance due to the havoc cause by the explosion. The 500 mattresses for the isolation centres were presented to the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Local Government and Community Affairs, Dr Taiwo Olufemi Salaam, who represented the Commissioner of the Ministry, Dr Wale Ahmed, at the State Secretariat Complex, Alausa. The 200 mattresses for the Abule Ado victims were received at the office of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) Dr Damilola Oke-Osanyitolu. The Chief Executive Officer of Mouka, Raymond Murphy, said the management deemed it necessary to support the state government’s efforts in bringing succour to victims of the Abule Ado pipeline explosion, as well as to Nigerians infected with the COVID-19 virus who were being treated at the isolation centres in Lagos. Murphy also mentioned that the donation of mattresses to isolation centres for COVID-19 was aimed at enhancing government’s effort in providing appropriate treatment for infected persons, and also at curtailing the pandemic in Nigeria. Salaam described the intervention as “timely”, saying assistance from private organisations was needed at this crucial time to boost the state’s healthcare facilities. Also, Oke-Osanyitolu commended Mouka’s effort towards reducing the anguish of victims of the Abule Ado fire disaster, which he said had rendered many homeless and in severe health conditions. Governors Forum donates N200m to Abule Ado blast victims Lagos explosion: 15 die in Abule Ado — NEMA Lagos explosion: Governors’ Forum donates N200m