Pregnant women, patients suffering from malaria, hypertension, diabetes and other ailments are finding it difficult to access care and medication as hospitals across the 36 states of the federation shift attention to containing the ravaging new coronavirus. Daily Trust reports that hospital authorities have put in place stricter measures for patients to have access to their facilities, while many doctors, nurses and lab attendants are being cautious and in some cases not attending to patients. In some states, there are reports that some patients with underlining ailments like heart diseases that require going to hospital from time to time prefer to buy drugs over-the-counter for fear of contracting the coronavirus disease in the process of seeking medical care at health facilities. There is also increased suspicion, with some doctors wary of going close to patients because they didn’t have protective gears, and some patients afraid to seat with doctors because of the exposure they (doctors) have daily with other patients with suspicious diseases. On Tuesday, April 21, the COVID-19 had reached 25 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) with 782 confirmed cases and 25 deaths while 197 victims of the dreaded disease have been discharged. Some experts who spoke to Daily Trust, yesterday, underscored the urgent need for the federal and state governments to fashion ways of giving equal attention to patients of other diseases that could kill because of negligence in terms of diagnosis and availability of drugs. “It is a trying moment for all of us,” said Dr Ali, a medical practitioner in Plateau State. “There is a lack of trust between doctors and patients. We were all caught unawares because all of us were not ready for this. Protective gears are not available for doctors and nurses and therefore you cannot easily trust any patient, including those you know for long. Hospitals are getting overwhelmed and governments at all levels are struggling. “Therefore, patients suffering from minor diseases would continue to suffer and unless urgent measures are taken, we will have a surge in avoidable deaths from minor ailments,” he said. Katsina restricts visit to state-owned hospitals As part of measures to contain the COVID-19, the Katsina State Hospital Services Management Board has directed that all clinical meetings in state-owned hospitals should be suspended and patients that were in stable condition be discharged. The General Manager of the board, Dr AbdulJalil Abdullahi, gave the directive in a circular to heads of government hospitals. He said the admission of patients should be only when it was absolutely necessary, adding that only one caregiver per patient should be allowed. At Turai Yar’adua Maternity Hospital, our correspondent observed that patients were screened at entry points. The state chairman of Nigeria Medical Association (NBA), Dr Mohammad Nafiu Abdulaziz, said given the outbreak of the pandemic, all patients at hospitals were managed ethically but the only difference was that every health personnel had to do so with high suspicion. “You treat every patient as if he has the virus. I don’t see any reason why a patient will be turned down. We don’t select patients to see,” he said. Residents attribute rising deaths in Kano to poor attention Many people interviewed in Kano attributed the sharp rise in the number of deaths being recorded these days to lack of medical care for minor ailments like malaria and typhoid even though some of them did not rule out the possibility of COVID-19 in some cases. Interviews conducted by the Daily Trust with families of some people that died in Kano recently revealed that they lost their loved ones to malaria and sundry ailments. Some people said they could not take their sick ones to hospital because of the lockdown while some medical personnel said they were being circumspect in getting closer to patients because of fear of the unknown. Suspicion led to death of woman in Enugu A middle-aged man from Enugu State, Mr Nwachukwu Alagbu, has accused medical doctors at one of the tertiary health centres in the state of professional negligence leading to the death of his wife, Mrs Nkiru Alagbu. According to him, the doctors on duty allowed his wife, who was suffering from a cardiovascular disorder to die in a car that brought her to the hospital for fear that she might have contracted COVID-19. He said his wife, 35, developed cardiovascular disorder shortly after she gave birth to her last child more than a year ago and on April 14, she was referred to the tertiary health centre by a consultant at a clinic she was attending. “It became a problem to get attention. One of the doctors standing from a distance just asked some questions and concluded that it was a COVID-19 case,” he said. He said all entreaties by him, his sister-in-law, a family friend, who accompanied them to the hospital, and a fellow doctor from another hospital for the medical personnel to change their minds fell on deaf ears until his wife died in the car that brought her to the hospital. When contacted, the chairman, medical advisory committee of the hospital said he was in a meeting and will get back to our reporter but never did even after several calls and text messages sent to him. Ogun treats every patient as potential carrier The Ogun State chairperson of the National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives (NANNM), Comrade Roseline Solarin, said members of the association have been directed to treat every newly admitted patient as a potential carrier of COVID-19. The directive, she explained, was part of protective measures for the nurses not to endanger their lives in the line of duty. Solarin denied that nurses in Ogun hospitals were abdicating duties for fear of the coronavirus. “What we tell our members, because we also need to protect ourselves, is to take every patient as a potential carrier of this virus. That is the first thing health workers need to know and what they need to do in order to protect themselves,” Solarin said. However, there were reports that a number of hospitals in some parts of the state have shut down temporarily due to coronavirus. But Chairman of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) Dr Ismail Lawal told our correspondent that there was no directive anywhere for private hospitals not to operate. Patients spent hours in Edo hospitals In Edo State, hospitals are still in full operation but many have strengthened their screening and consultation processes, causing increased waiting time. Medical personnel at both the public and private hospitals visited were seen attending to patients. A patient who craved anonymity lamented that she spent several hours waiting to see doctors. “They said it is because of coronavirus that we have to undergo many processes before even waiting to see the doctor,” she said. A medical officer at a state-owned hospital told our reporter that the hospital had put precautionary measures in place due to coronavirus.  According to him, the diseases for which patients usually visited hospital were malaria and typhoid fever, hypertension and diabetes among others. Hospitals sceptical about patients in Lagos In Lagos, findings revealed that many hospitals have reduced their operations and admission of patients. The Medical Director of Dialyzer, a kidney specialist hospital, Prof. Jacob Awobusuyi, said the hospital had restricted intake of patients to only emergency cases. He, however, said kidney patients were not restricted from visiting the hospital for their dialysis due to the nature of their health condition. “It has been observed that people self-medicate, they don’t bother to come to the hospital,” he said, warning that patients who noticed any development like worsening of symptoms should visit a hospital. A doctor at Federal Medical Centre, Ebute Metta, described as worrisome how some patients gave false information about their symptoms. “A patient who is obviously ‘hot’ will tell us at the hospital that he or she is not ‘hot.’ But when the temperature is checked, it will be high,” she said. “Nowadays, patients want us to quickly commence treatment, but that is no longer possible because we have to take our time and take the history before moving closer to a patient. “They need to understand that health workers are humans and if we die because of contracting COVID-19, who will treat others? As a doctor, I also have a family at home,” she added. Patients express fears in Kaduna Patients suffering from ailments other than COVID-19 have expressed fears in visiting hospitals, stating that health-care centres could expose them to the coronavirus. Sadiya Kasim, who does her antenatal at a private hospital in Abakwa, Kaduna, said there was no significant change at the facility except that patients must subject themselves to hand washing and maintain social distance. Mohammed Jibrin, a diabetic patient, said he had visited Yusuf Dantsoho Hospital in Kaduna within the week without any hitch. Jibrin also said he was not unmindful of the fact that hospitals could be breeding ground for the coronavirus since health-care professionals attend to different categories of people daily and stand the risk of contracting the disease themselves. The Kaduna State Government last week said that a man who appeared distressed in a video which went viral on social media tested negative to the COVID-19 disease. Dr Amina Baloni, the State Commissioner for Health, in a statement in Kaduna said the 27-year old Tasiu Mohammed had been sick for a while before he travelled from Ogun State to his hometown in Jigawa. “Given his sickly state, the vehicle he was traveling in dropped him at the Western Bye-pass in Kaduna. “From there, he was taken to the Primary Health Centre in Hayin Bankin, where the video was recorded by people frightened that he might be a COVID-19 case,” she said. She said he was treated as a case of severe hypertension with acute pulmonary oedema but he passed away. Drugs scarce, expensive in Osun Some patients in Osun State complained that the prices of drugs have skyrocketed, with one of them, Abimbola Alamu, who was seen at a private hospital in Osogbo, saying apart from the price hike, drugs were scarce. “They are attending to us well but we could not get some of the drugs we need. The drugs now cost more than double the initial price,” he said. The Executive Secretary of Osun Health Insurance Scheme, Dr Niyi Oginni, said the scheme had not received any complaint regarding treatment at hospitals except on drugs. The Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee (LTH), Babatunde Afolabi, said the hospital was functioning normal and that necessary protocols were in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Lengthy appointment dates for patients in Abuja The Head, Department of Medicine and a consultant nephrologist at Wuse District Hospital, Dr. Kwaifa Ibrahim, said the hospital did not close its doors for operations since the outbreak of the coronavirus. He said patients were being attended to though the number had dropped drastically. He said for those that went for special clinic such as diabetic, cardiac, kidney patients, they attend to them daily. “These categories of patients are given lengthy appointment because we don’t want the place to be crowded. Instead of the normal two to three weeks’ appointment, we have increased it so as to reduce congestion. “Before, we used to attend to patients from early morning till 4 pm but these days we use to round up by 12 pm. “And for those on admission, there is an instruction; we do not allow visitors, only one relation per patient,” he said. He added that the hospital no longer kept patients for a long time. “The moment a patient is better we send him home.” Patients moan as lack of manpower, equipment suffocates general hospitals Leprosy patients in Katsina lament take-over of hospital Drugs scarcity persists at State House Clinic