President Muhammadu Buhari’s chief of staff Abba Kyari has passed on. Kyari tested positive for Covid-19 in March. Nigeria on Friday reported fifty-one new cases of coronavirus, taking the total confirmed cases in the most populous black nation to 493. 159 patients have been successfully treated and discharged while 17 deaths have been recorded since the outbreak of the virus in Nigeria, according to Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The presidency confirmed the death in a statement issued by Mr. Femi Adesina, the spokesman of President Buhari. “The Presidency regrets to announce the passage of the Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari. The deceased had tested positive to the ravaging COVID-19, and had been receiving treatment. But he died on Friday, April 17, 2020. May God accept his soul. Funeral arrangements will be announced shortly,” he noted in the statement. Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, passes on. May God rest his soul. Amen. Funeral arrangements to be announced soon. — Femi Adesina (@FemAdesina) April 17, 2020  The news broke in March that  Kyari had tested positive for the virus while his principal, Buhari was said to be negative. The presidency later released a statement confirming the report. President Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, many governors, ministers and other top government functionaries had mingled with Kyari shortly before he tested positive for the coronavirus (COVID-19). Kyari, who returned to Nigeria from Germany on March 14, had participated in several state functions and unofficial engagements that attracted prominent personalities. Kyari’s Letter Kyari was flown to Lagos in an Air ambulance to continue his treatment after testing positive for coronavirus. Kyari said in a letter that he made his personal care arrangements to avoid further burdening the public health system, which faces so many pressures. The letter read: “I am writing to let you know that on medical advice, I will transfer to Lagos later today for additional tests and observation. “This is a precautionary measure: I feel well, but last week, I tested positive for coronavirus, the pandemic that is sweeping the world. I have followed all the protocols government has announced to self-isolate and quarantine. “I have made my own care arrangements to avoid further burdening the public health system, which faces so many pressures. Like many others that will test also positive, I have not experienced high fever or other symptoms associated with this new virus and have been working from home. I hope to be back at my desk very soon. “I have a team of young, professional, knowledgeable and patriotic colleagues, whose dedication has been beyond the call of duty, who continue to work seven days a week, with no time of the day spared. We will continue to serve the President and people of Nigeria, as we have for the past five years.” Before testing positive for COVID-19, Kyari mingled with govs, ministers, others Coronavirus: Abba Kyari tests positive, Buhari negative NCDC confirms 2 more Covid-19 infections, raising total to 46