The House of Representatives has called on the federal government to investigate the causes of unexplained high number of deaths in Kano State. This followed a motion moved by House Leader, Alhassan Ado Doguwa (APC,Kano) on Tuesday. It called for intervention in the health crisis and rising death toll in the state. Doguwa expressed his worries over the rising unexplained deaths in the state in recent weeks. He disclosed that the state recorded hundreds of death especially in Kano municipality in less than two weeks. The House Leader, therefore, called on the federal government to address the rising cases of unexplained deaths in Kano state. Contributing to the debate, Deputy Minority Leader, Toby Okechukwu (PDP, Enugu), said: “It is Kano state today, it could be any other state tomorrow. We must get it right and put an end to the coronavirus. “There is need for collaboration between the federal government and states to tackle the pandemic in quick time”. Kano state has recorded 77 confirmed COVID-19 cases and one death so far but many public analysts believe the high rate of deaths in the state is linked to the disease. A former governor of the state, Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso had on Monday written to President Muhammadu Buhari on the rising incidences of mysterious deaths in Kano state. In the letter, titled ‘COVID-19 and the rising incidences of mysterious deaths in Kano state: a call on the federal government for urgent action to save lives’, Kwankwaso stated that he felt obliged to Mr President on the scary incident. “Permit me Mr. President to draw your attention to the spike in mystery deaths among the aged population in Kano State in the last couple of weeks. “Hundreds of funerals have been recorded in all the cemeteries of the eight metropolitan local governments alone. “Looking at the pattern elsewhere in the world where senior citizens with preexisting conditions were the main fatalities of the novel coronavirus, we are concerned that the inability to conduct tests in the state to determine the status of these senior citizens might be responsible for their death. “We are even more concerned that if sincere and efficient machinery is not urgently put in place to understand and militate against this, more lives of innocent senior citizens will be lost,” Kwankwaso noted. Kwankwaso advised that the situation in the state should not be seen by Mr. President as a state government matter. In what looks like a sharp response, President Buhari has now ordered the total lockdown of Kano state for two weeks in a bid to curtail the spread of coronavirus in the state. “With regards to Kano, I have directed the enforcement of a total lockdown for a period of two weeks effective immediately. “The Federal Government shall deploy all the necessary human, material and technical resources to support the State in controlling and containing the pandemic and preventing the risk of further spread to neighboring States,” he said in his national broadcast on Monday night. He also promised to give support to the Kano state government to be able to win the war against the pandemic. Reps to investigate Kano ‘mysterious’ deaths COVID-19: Your response to Kano health crisis poor, PDP Reps caucus tells FG Kano mysterious deaths: Kwankwaso writes Buhari