Many fuel stations nationwide are still selling the Premium Motor Spirit (petrol) at the old price of N125 per litre, almost a week after the Federal Government slashed it to N123.50k.  But Daily Trust reporters observed across Lagos and Abuja yesterday that many of the filling stations still sold petrol at N125 per litre against the new price of N123.5. In Lagos, Lado Filling station at Cele bus-stop, Ikotun still sold to motorists at N125 as at Monday afternoon. Similarly, Mobil Filling Station at Abaranje road, in Alimosho Local Government Area sold at the old price of N125 per litre just as Sadesh Petroleum, Egbe-Isolo road dispensed at N125/litre to buyers. Daily Trust’s monitoring in Abuja filling stations showed the petrol still sold at old price. Stations at Nyanya, Mararaba, Kuje and some of the stations in the city centre were selling at N125/litre. Some of the attendants at the stations told our correspondent that they had not been instructed by their managers to sell at the new price. A manager in one of the filling stations in Lagos, who gave his name as Rafiu told our reporter that until the old stock of N125 was exhausted, no marketer would sell at the new price. “I think this was the understanding between us marketers and the government”, he said. Information sourced from buyers in other states reflected that the rate of compliance remained so low that customers had “accepted their fate since nobody is curbing the lawlessness in the downstream sub-sector”, as one customer described the situation in Kaduna state. However, the NNPC Retail Ltd., one of the downstream subsidiaries of the Nigerian Nationality Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), said that all its filling stations across Nigeria were selling premium motor spirit (petrol) within the official price band announced by the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) for the month of April. The Corporation’s Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Dr. Kennie Obateru, in a press release, quoted the Managing Director of NNPC Retail Ltd., Sir Billy Okoye, as saying that all of the company’s over 600 hundred retail outlets adjusted to the new price immediately the pricing regulatory agency came up with the new price band of between N123.50 and N125. Meanwhile, the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) said the level of compliance to the new pump price was impressive. The DPR’s spokesman, Mr. Paul Osu, told our correspondent in a telephone chat that the agency had been monitoring and many filling stations across the country had complied to the new price. He said: “DPR has been monitoring filling stations nationwide in spite of the lockdown to ensure compliance and this we have been doing with the media in tow. The level of compliance has been impressive and we will not rest on our oars. “Our monitoring exercise goes beyond just price compliance but also to check hoarding of products, ensure that accurate volume is dispensed to consumers and also to ensure that the filling station is adhering to regulatory safety protocols in its operations”, Osu maintained.