Airtel Nigeria has announced a commitment of over N1.9 billion towards the fight against COVID-19 in Nigeria. Giving a breakdown of the pledged sum, Airtel said N200 million will be used for provision of an isolation center or any required medical facility agreed with the appropriate health authority in the country, another N120 million towards provision of respirator masks for health workers nationwide. The telecom operator is also offering free Short Message Services (SMS) to customers across all networks worth over N1bn as well as free data for customers to access educational and health sites worth about N500 million. The sites include those of Federal Ministry of Health and Nigeria Center for Disease Control on COVID-19. The telco indicated that it was also committing about N100 million to support the NCDC, Port Health Services and the 36 States, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) on provision of toll-free lines to help in the fight against COVID-19 and to connect the NCDC’s offices nationwide with Broadband services. ‘’Our employees are not left out. They have voluntarily contributed N20 million to be donated to Lagos State Government during the week for provision of food items to needy families during this crisis’’, the company stated. Commenting on the efforts of the company to join well-meaning Nigerians and corporate entities to stop the spread of COVID-19, its Managing Director, Mr. Segun Ogunsanya, said Airtel remained deeply connected with the feelings of every Nigerian at this time and it is inspired to act and continue to go the extra-mile to ensure a stop to the spread of the deadly Coronavirus. He said: “As a key stakeholder in Nigeria, we are committed to supporting government at every level in stopping the spread of COVID-19. We will continue to intensify our efforts and support as we leverage our technology and network to bring relief and succor to Nigerians at this trying time.  “We have an obligation to support our communities in fighting this virus and I have no doubt in my mind that we will succeed”, Ogunsanya added. It would be recalled that the telecom operator had earlier commenced a multi-million naira educational awareness campaign to sensitize Nigerians on steps to take to prevent spread of the virus. Airtel offers toll-free lines to 36 states, FCT to support fight against COVID-19 COVID-19: Wholesale catastrophe COVID-19: Subscribers mount pressure on telcos for slashed tariffs