The Enugu State Command of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) has confirmed gunmen attack on a local government council chairmanship aspirant under the umbrella of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Mr Chineme Onyeke. The new Police spokesman in the state, Mr. Daniel Ndukwe, disclosed this yesterday. He added that the command will release a statement on Monday concerning the issue. Daily Trust reports that Onyeke, an aspirant for Nsukka LG chairmanship position, was reportedly attacked in Ehalunoma town, within the Nsukka council area at about 2pm on Saturday. Daily Trust further reports that the latest incident has added to the violence following the primaries of PDP scheduled for the February 29 local government elections in the state, just as the PDP Secretariat in Nsukka town was burnt down on Friday night by unknown persons. The arson on the party’s office was believed to be the handiwork of aggrieved aspirants who were unhappy about the reported hijack of the primaries by party leadership to favour a certain preferred chairmanship aspirant. Onyeke was said to be in the company of his personal assistant, Mr. Uche Ozioko, when the unknown gunmen attacked, although Ozioko himself escaped narrowly but Onyeke has not been sighted since the incident. Giving a graphic account of the incident, Ozioko,  who spoke  on phone  from the police station, said they came out of Ehalumona Parish House and were heading to Opi Junction in a RAV4 Jeep when he noticed a black-painted  Peugeot car with tinted glass was following them. He said they were heading to Opi and stopped on the way to greet a member of the House of Representatives, Dr.  Pat Asadu at Ehalumona. Ozioko, who said that he was driving the RAV4, said as soon as they continued their journey, the Peugeot 406 car started accelerating towards them, adding that he increased the speed of their vehicle. According to him, “I was telling my boss that I was suspicious of the intention of those in the Peugeot car but he said there was nothing to be afraid of as he had no issue with anybody. “But suddenly, they doubled-crossed us and started shooting. I opened my door and dashed into the bush and Chineme also opened his door and ran into the bush. I noticed the gunmen chasing after him. By God’s grace, I escaped and found my way to the police station at Umuabor Ehalumona from where I am speaking with you”. He said there was no information about the whereabouts of his boss yet as at the time of filing this report. It was learnt that Onyeke recently complained to his lawyer, Mr Godwin Onwusi, that he has been receiving threats over his political ambition; Onwusi himself confirmed this information when contacted. ‘Enugu council poll is prone to fail’ Disaffection, blame game trail Enugu LG polls Avoid bribe, it brings bad luck, CP warns policemen