Minister of Transportation Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has said the transportation sector is being developed as a strategic driver of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s economic diversification and growth agenda. He said government was focused on the establishment of a strong intermodal transport system that would facilitate seamless movement of goods and people and drastically reduce the cost of transportation and business. Amaechi made this disclosure at an award and dinner night organised by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) on Saturday in Lagos. He said with a developed transport sector, “there will be increased productivity, which comes with creation of more jobs and production of more goods and services. All these will make the economy more competitive, reduce dependence on oil, and usher in economic growth. This is our target. “We are aware that transportation is key in any economic development plan. The major elements of production – raw materials, machines, people, finished products, etc. – have to be seamlessly moved from one point to the other as the need arises.’’ On the economic significance of transportation, Amaechi said, “Adequate investment in transport infrastructure will enhance the efficiency, reliability, and capacity of the transportation system, which will, in turn, lead to lower transport costs, shorter transit times, increased business efficiency, and business expansion, as money previously spent on transport is ploughed back into business.” In his welcome address, Director-General of NIMASA Dr. Dakuku Peterside noted the significant change in the reputation of the agency in the last few years. He said the burnished image was part of the fruits of the management’s deliberate effort to change the old ways of doing things in the industry and the agency, for the overall good of the economy. He highlighted some of the achievements of the agency in the last three years to include the final billing regime, which has significantly reduced turnaround time for all vessel billing transactions from reduced turnaround time for all vessel billing transactions from between five and 10 years to two weeks of the ship’s departure; increased tonnage, with Nigeria currently placing second in Africa, after Liberia; and reduction of turnaround time for issuance of Sailing Clearance from about one year to 14 days. Amaechi, Saraki tasked on transportation roadmap FG to develop efficient transport sector, says Amaechi FG unveils path to bring private funds into transport