…passengers forced to sleep in the open Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State yesterday caught some soldiers and policemen forcing travellers who did not have the national identity card to pay N1,000. The governor was on his way to Jakana, a village 45km from Maiduguri where terrorists launched an attack on Saturday. While on the way, the governor met thousands of stranded commuters allegedly being extorted by security operatives at Jimtilo, a village in the outskirts of Maiduguri, along the Damaturu-Kano road. Yesterday’s incident in which soldiers and policemen blocked the highway for several hours, and forced the governor to stop, had caused heavy gridlock of buses and heavy trucks that were either going into, or out of Maiduguri to Damaturu, Kano, Kaduna, Jos, Abuja and other parts of the country. Daily Trust reports that of all the five entry routes to the Borno State capital, the Maiduguri-Damaturu road is the relatively safest from Boko Haram ambush, hence the heavy traffic during the day. Though the military and other security operatives, last year reopened the Maiduguri-Bama-Biu road, Maiduguri-Damboa, Biu-Gombe road, Maiduguri-Dikwa, Gamboru-Ngala road and Maiduguri-Monguno-Baga road, passengers and drivers are up till now sceptical of plying them because of activities of ISWAP and Boko Haram insurgents. How Zulum caught security operatives unawares Our correspondents report that for the past 10 years, nobody will access Maiduguri without being thoroughly checked by soldiers and policemen at Jimtilo, a heavily guarded checkpoint surrounded by a long trench that also encircles the state capital. When he arrived the checkpoint yesterday which is few metres away from the Borno State University, the governor met a long stretch of vehicles and travellers stranded on both sides of the road. Credible sources said the governor was earlier hinted that people including women and children had been trapped at the checkpoint for many hours. As soon as he alighted from his vehicle, the governor said in anger: “This is unacceptable. How can you subject people to this kind of torture all in the name of National ID card? And you are all here collecting N500 and N1000 from poor travellers who don’t have national ID card.” But one of the soldiers manning the checkpoint who tried to give a different perspective as to why they stopped the travellers met a brick wall as the governor was angry. “No, this is not right,” the governor said. “The government has not created an enabling environment for our people to get their national ID cards and you are here collecting N500 and N1000 as fine for not having what the federal government has not provided for all,” he added. Our correspondents recalled that the military had in September last year issued a statement that travellers going to some states in the North East, especially Borno, Yobe and Adamawa must show their ID card to prove their personalities as a way of curtailing free movement of terrorists. Though the military high command simply said identification card, troops in the volatile region seized the opportunity to insist on National ID Card which many passengers do not possess. In the process, the security operatives compelled commuters to pay money in order to be allowed to proceed on their journeys. The governor, while at Jimtilo, said he had received several reports about the alleged extortion at the Maiduguri checkpoint. He therefore asked one of his aides to call the Theatre Commander, Major General Olusegun Adeniyi. “Theatre Commander where are you?” the governor asked soon after the phone call was placed. “Right now I am at the checkpoint near state university and we have thousands of people stranded and your people are here collecting money from people because they don’t have National ID Card. Why?”  Nobody heard what the army general told the governor, but after discussing for some time, Zulum directed the security personnel to open the gates on both sides to allow all travellers to move. The Theatre Commander later arrived at the check point. On arrival, he told the governor that the hold-up was because of an attack that happened earlier in the day and assured that he will investigate the allegation levelled against his troops manning the checkpoint. But the governor countered saying, “I saw them with my eyes, I spoke with people that were asked to give money. “You must know that the government and people of Borno State are behind you and your men, but you must call your soldiers to order, you must check their excesses,” the governor said. “What happened today is quite unusual because I came here (Jimtilo) around 10am and some people told me they were asked to park by the road side since around 8.40am,” said Bakura Baana, a commercial vehicle driver. “We are taking a patient to UMTH but here we are…We know they normally close around 5.30pm or when there was an attack or there is fear of an impending attack. However, today they didn’t say anything,” he said. How travellers passed the night at Jimtilo village over the years Daily Trust reports that when a state of emergency was declared in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa states in 2013 following the escalation of Boko Haram crisis, governors of the affected states had at one time or the order declared curfew as a way of restricting movement for certain hours. Up till today, the curfew persists in Borno and Yobe states as people are not allowed to move around from 10pm up till 6am. The governors of the two states had over time changed the timing depending on circumstances. In Borno, however, the military and the police normally closed the Jimtilo gate around 5 or 6pm every day, thereby forcing travelers, especially those going to Maiduguri from distant places, to pass the night in the open at the checkpoint. “This has been the tradition for over eight years,” said Yagana Bukar, a nurse in one of the hospitals in Maiduguri who frequents Damaturu. “They lock the gate even when there is no attack…Only prominent people that have connection would be allowed to get into Maiduguri after 6pm even though the time for curfew is 10pm. “I strongly feel this is dangerous because anything can happen. If the terrorists can attack travellers on the highway, do you think they will not come to Jimtilo and kill innocent vulnerable people,” she asked. A driver who does not want his name mentioned said there is need to look at the “rule” which compels people to pass the night in the open at a volatile location. “It takes more than 12 hours to arrive here from Abuja, so even when you leave by 7am, it will take you up to 7pm to get to Maiduguri. Many people break their journeys in Damaturu and proceed the next day,” he said. Passengers also stranded in Yobe Our correspondents report that beside the gridlock at Jimtilo, hundreds of commuters were also trapped at Kukareta, a border village between Borno and Yobe. “After running into a bad traffic jam at Jimtilo, we were also stopped for five hours at Kukareta,” said Mohammed Abubakar, one of the passengers traveling out of Maiduguri. “We were there at Kukareta awaiting the military’s green light until five o’clock in the evening when we were allowed to pass and continue our journey. “During our 5-hour stopover at Kukareta, no vehicle was allowed to travel toward Maiduguri or out,” he said. A driver, Musa Sajo, called on the federal government to look at the situation in order to ease the pains of travellers. “We agree that the troops are there to protect us but they also need a serious oversight to check their excesses. I pray they take the war to the Boko Haram in their enclaves so that we see the end of this war,” he said. Boko Haram puts pressure on Maiduguri Benisheik attack death toll now 161 Sallah: Trapped Borno, Yobe residents celebrate away from families