Chieftains of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Gombe State say the party will continue to grow stronger and reclaim power in 2023. Rising from a one-day stakeholders’ meeting held at the party’s secretariat in Gombe, the PDP bigwigs said despite the persecution and discrimination coming from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the party is still on course to return to power in the state. The meeting convened by a former member of the House of Representatives, Hajiya Fatima Binta Bello, was attended by former political and public office holders in the state and at national level when the PDP held sway in the state. It was also attended by cabinet members of former Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo’s administration and other top members of the party in the North East zone. Addressing mammoth crowds of party elders, supporters and executives, Fatima Bello said the APC-led administration was afraid of her party’s popularity because the PDP laid the foundation for the development of the state for the past 16 years. She said the idea behind calling the members together was for them to understand and encourage one another and show the world that the PDP is still stronger in the state. “Our great party is fully grounded in all nooks and crannies of Gombe State. We don’t know any other party than the PDP and we are going to make meaningful opposition because we taught those in government politics,” she said. The state PDP chairman, Mr Joel Adamu Jagafa, thanked the members for sticking with the party despite losing the 2019 elections to the APC. Jagafa said the PDP remained the backbone of development in the state because it has a lot of things to showcase in the areas of infrastructure and human capital development in the last 16 years the party was in power. Also, the former Deputy Governor of the state, Mr Charles Iliya, urged members to remain united, expressing optimism that the PDP will bounce back to power in 2023. He urged members to make meaningful contributions to the party beyond using it as a platform to run for elections only. Some of the speakers at the event rebuked the state government for allegedly denying them to use Gombe International Hotel for the meeting “after paying for the venue over a month ago.” Zamfara APC moves to recover 2019 loss How PDP ‘snatched’ Senate from APC How PDP is picking its pieces in Kogi