The Minister of Aviation Senator Hadi Sirika yesterday said the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, will be ready before the Easter celebration in April. Sirika who said he was satisfied with the level of work done on the project promised that he would soon begin a countdown on the reopening of the airport which was shut down in August last year. The shutdown of the airport followed the dilapidated state of the runway which had gone through several remedial works and patches. The Federal Government however decided to shut it down completely to carry out a comprehensive work on the airport and install other equipment such as instrument landing system, airfield lighting, taxi lighting, among others to aid flight operations. The Minister spoke when he inspected the airport with the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Engr. Musa Hassan; the Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Capt. Rabiu Yadudu and officials of the Enugu State Government. Also on the inspection was the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Aviation, Hon. Nnolim Nnaji. Daily Trust reports that the project involves the scraping and resurfacing of bad stretch of the runway which was dilapidated According to the Minister, the Muhammadu Buhari-led government takes the completion of the Enugu Airport project seriously because of its strategic importance to the economy of the entire South Eastern Region. He said: “I am very satisfied with the level of work. According to the programme of work approved and established by us, we are beating the deadline. As to the question of whether Easter is feasible, indeed it is. By our programme of work, we would be leaving this runway God’s willing before Easter. And that’s sacrosanct by the grace of God. “We take this job very seriously. We know the importance of Enugu, not only being an international airport, we know that it is a centre for the South Eastern part of the country,  all of the commercial activities, the trading activities and festivities are domiciled and centred around this city, a very important city for that matter. “We take it very seriously. Personally from the level of the Ministry and under the leadership of Mr. President, Muhammadu Buhari, every single assignment is in the interest of this country.” Sirika also inspected the new terminal at the airport being wholly funded by the Federal Government and undertaken by the China Civil Engineering and Construction Corporation (CCECC). He said the terminal would be delivered by the end of 2020, saying while government secured loan to fund four terminals in Lagos, Kano, Abuja and Port Harcourt, the Enugu is being funded by the Ministry through budgetary provision. The Minister assured the people of Enugu and all users of the airport to expect a brand new airport which would have all the modern facilities and equipment to enhance safe flight operations. “The runway when completed will have other equipment such as the instrument landing system, airfield lighting, taxi lighting and every single equipment and system that will enhance safe flight operations,” he added. The Enugu Deputy Governor, Cecilia Ezeilo who represented Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi noted that the closure of the airport is affecting “everybody in Iboland” but expressed delight on the pace of work. Enugu Airport ready before Easter- FG FG to shut Enugu airport for safety reasons FG to shut down Enugu airport