President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday approved the constitution of two committees for the delivery of the 3050 megawatts (MW) Mambilla Hydropower Project in Taraba State. This is coming after Daily Trust published an editorial on the project and followed up with an interview with the Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman. The committees include the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee (IMSC) chaired by the minister and the Project Delivery Committee (PDC) chaired by the Director, Renewable Energy and Rural Power Access, Engr. Faruk Yusuf, in the Federal Ministry of Power which will also report to the minister through the Permanent Secretary, Didi Walson-Jack. In a recent Daily Trust exclusive interview, the minister said survey works for the project have begun, and the project started from the scratch under his supervision when he assumed office in August 2019. A statement by the minister’s spokesman, Aaron Artimas on Tuesday said the members of the IMSC are representatives of the federal government agencies and the Taraba State government. The agencies are ministries of Water Resources, Environment, Finance, Budget and National Planning, Works and Housing, Justice, Information and Culture, and Mines and Steel Development. Others are representatives of the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF), National Security Adviser (NSA), the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) and the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). The terms of reference of the IMSC include fast-tracking the execution and the project delivery; to review in six months the project engineering and technical design concept for optimal efficiency especially as it will benefit the North-east. The committee is also mandated to obtain approval of the loan facility from the China Exim Bank for the 85 percent off-shore component of the project based on a reviewed contract price. Daily Trust reports: Buhari raises committees for 3050MW Mambilla power project Survey works begin for N2trn Mambilla hydro power project — Mamman Reps query ₦127bn power budget allocation