Minister of Power Engr. Sale Mamman has said there is need for improved metering of electricity consumers to solve the liquidity crisis in the power sector. He stated this yesterday at the international conference on Energy, Power Systems Operations and Planning (ICEPSOP) 2020 in Abuja. Acknowledging the widening liquidity gap in the sector, he said there was need for urgent intervention. “There is need to reinforce market structures and enhance transparency. To address this challenge, we are working hard to improve metering in general and in particular the use of smart meters as well as smart grids,” Mamman said. At the event with the theme, ‘Empowering Micro Grid with Smart Grid Attributes Development in United States and Africa’, the minister said his ministry is working with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Federal Ministry of Finance and other stakeholders to consolidate on some strategies that will boost the success of the electricity market. Part of the strategy to solve the problem of access to power is to promote rural electrification under his leadership, Mamman said. He said of the 1.2 billion people without access to power globally, about 50% are in the sub-Saharan region. At present, he said 55 percent of residents in urban areas of Nigeria have access to power while only 36 percent have access to power across rural communities. Chairman of Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) Prof. James Momoh at the conference said the event provided a platform for stakeholders to explore innovative approaches for deploying micro power grid and smart grid technologies in Nigeria. Similarly, Chairman of the House Committee on Power Magaji Aliyu supported the concept of mini-grid development which he said could address power supply challenges in rural communities. ‘Effective metering, best option to solve Nigeria’s electricity problem’ Electricity: Protests, progress as privatised sector clocks 5 How FG rescued power sector, raised transmission to 8,000MW — Fashola