Experts have urged the Federal Government to urgently review the border closure such that the plights of the local exporters will be addressed. They made the call yesterday  in Abuja at a Policy Roundtable on Nigeria’s Regulatory Environment organised by the Policy Development Facility Phase II (PDF II) and the UKAID, with the theme, “Roundtable on Promotion of Transparency and Efficiency in the Business Environment”. Speaking on the side-line of the meeting, the Exporters Voices Lead, PDF II Trade Policy Work Stream, Mrs. Titilope Ojo, said the blanket border closure should be reviewed in the interest of the local businesses. According to her, an example is a company in Kano which they visited in 2019 that has most of their markets in some of the West African countries and which the border closure could not allow them to export their products to the outside market. “For them they have inventories sitting down there for six months at the time we visited. So, really, the border closure in as much as Nigeria is trying to improve on growing our own market and economy. Yes, it is a good idea but at the same time we have to look at it holistically. “When you are thinking of banning things from coming in, are we also looking at things that needs to go out, are we looking at small businesses that their markets are actually out there, how as this border closure affected them. The fact is that it has affected a couple of them. We also have same business they manufacture carpet and rugs and blankets in Kano. Most of the inputs that they used for production are imported from some neighbouring countries as well, so the border closure couldn’t get them accessed to their inputs. “I think the border closure should be looked at holistically so that we are not also hurting the businesses that have been operating in the country. As much as we want to close it, let us look at those that need to go out as well so that does not hamper their business,” Ojo said. When asked why the exporters were not exploring the sea and air ports, she said that she was not sure that there are much more alternatives. She said, “The truth is even with the borders closed there is still smuggling going on at the borders. So, closing the borders, if you look at holistically at it actually hindered the entry of some of the things, we are trying to keep out there. Some have also used alternatives border routes and smuggled the same thing in, so we need to look at it critically.” On his part, Policy Expert, PDF II, Trade Policy Work Stream, Dr. Olumuyiwa Alaba, said that Nigeria has all intents of improving businesses environment as the indicators of improvement in business environment Nigeria actually showed improvement. FG bans imports, exports through land borders Importation, exportation ban grounds commercial activities Land borders closure takes a toll on business