The Emir of Potiskum, Alhaji Umaru Bubaram, in this interview with Daily Trust, narrated how bandits attacked his convoy and killed four of his aides and abducted many other people on the Kaduna-Zaria Highway last Wednesday. Can you provide an insight into the attack on your convoy last week? Bismillahi Rahmanir Raheem. The incident happened around Jaji before Marraraban Jos. As we were approaching, there was a kind of panic along the road. So, we had to stop. After we stopped for 20 minutes, later on, the traffic was a bit relaxed and vehicles began to move. There were speculations that bandits had laid siege along the road, but later, vehicles continued to move uninhibited. I felt the road was not clear as the traffic continued and we started moving again up to four kilometres. There was a traffic jam. As we were moving slowly, we started discussing the situation, and I said it was a dangerous movement. Few minutes later, there were sporadic gunshots left, right and centre. The gunshots were unbelievable. It was just like a war field. Instantly, I saw my pilot driver swerved and then hit a standing vehicle. I suspected he was shot. It was then I realized the situation was so serious. Then, I saw my police officer struggling to come out of the vehicle. We decided to abandon our vehicles and moved to safety. God, in His kindness, helped us to escape from the scene of the attack. We trekked some distance before we stopped. Later on, we continued moving until we made sure we were away from the danger zone. We remained in the bush. But around 2:00 am, I saw security amber light was trying to identify my whereabouts. But I felt I could not come out that night. I decided to avoid coming out and I avoided any phone call until when the morning prayer was called and the place was a bit clear. In the morning, the police called and I directed them to where I was. They came and picked me straight to the Kaduna Specialist Hospital where a medical check was done on me. They later discharged me after realising that I was unhurt. I thank the medical doctor who was in charge of that hospital. He checked me and reported that I did not have any injury. I am very grateful to the Kaduna State Government, the hospital that took care of us and the security operatives. I was well comforted. So, I didn’t develop any trauma. I didn’t even know about the death of my people until when the news was broken to me that I lost four of my people in that tragic incident. Some of my policemen also sustained gunshots, but were treated at the hospital. “I sincerely appreciate the Yobe State Government, the Minister of State for Works Engr Abubakar Aliyu and the Deputy Speaker of the Yobe State House of Assembly for all the support they gave for my safety. The four aides that died in the terror attack were Makama Habu Maina Kaina, Shuaibu Dogari, Adamu Damahi and Sulei Dogari. States back in grip  of kidnappers, bandits Bandits continue killing spree in Katsina Yobe Council of Chiefs condemns attack on Emir of Potiskum