Former Imo State Governor Emeka Ihedioha who was sacked from office by the Supreme Court Tuesday, said yesterday he was still in shock over the sudden sack but would remain calm. Ihedioha, also a former deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, said the Nigerian judiciary and the electoral system were on trial, adding that he still had faith in the nation’s democracy. Speaking yesterday at his residence in Abuja when the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) paid him a solidarity visit, Ihedioha said the verdict would not alter his commitment to democracy but rather strengthen his resolve to match forward with other well-meaning Nigerians to make Nigeria better. He said it was a redefining moment and time for sober reflection, adding that those celebrating the verdict were not students of democracy. “We are as shocked as yourselves, it was never anticipated. All legal pundits and democratic watchers never imagined and anticipated it. So for us it remains a mystery, but we take solace in the book of Ecclesiastics Chapter 3 verse 1 that says, ‘To everything, there is a season and time for every purpose under heaven’. “I believe that that event will define obviously our democracy. I am certain that the judiciary and electoral system are well aware that they are on trial. “The elections in Imo were closely monitored, well advertised and everybody in Nigeria followed it through. The results were very clear, the electoral umpire still has the results, and INEC has stated clearly that the results in question and the figures are not summing up. “It’s not about Emeka Ihedioha, it’s not about Imo State, it’s about the future of our country and democracy, it’s about what do we do tomorrow. Do you go into an electoral process without having an idea? It has to be resolved one way or the other. “I am calm and we are calm, and that is why you see in Imo, there is calm. The calmness is coming out of shock, it is coming out if the fact that people are saying, let us still see, can this be possible? We are waiting for answers and I believe there will be answers. “The God that we worship, we are faithful believers in God and God does not sleep. This will make history in many ways and so this is a historical process, historical action, and I am sure there will be historical answers at the end of the day. I want to assure you that we will remain resolute and committed to the ideals of our great party. “And I am certain that from the events of that day, Nigeria will emerge a stronger and greater country. I want to urge you to continue to work with all lovers of democracy across board so that we can all put our heads together and match forward. “So at a time like this, what are we bequeathing to the future generation? Our children are asking questions that have not yet been answered and the facts speak for themselves. I hope they will be addressed.” The PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, said PDP leaders were still in deep pains and reiterated that the Supreme Court should review and reverse the judgment. I'm still in shock over Supreme Court verdict - Ihedioha Aftermath of Imo verdict: PDP to call for mass protests Okorocha defeats Ihedioha at Appeal Court