At least 29 people have been killed while 195 people have tested positive for Lassa fever following the outbreak of the epidemic which has spread to about 11 states, with Ogun, Kaduna and Borno reporting single deaths since Friday. This is as the Nigeria Centre for Diseases Control has activated a “national emergency operations centre” to coordinate response to the latest outbreak of Lassa fever, as the number of infections continues to rise. Nearly 9 in 10 of the confirmed cases come from Ondo, Edo and Ebonyi, where the NCDC has activated state-level emergency operations centre in the wake of the outbreak. NCDC says the increase in the number of cases reported at this time of the year is “not unusual”, due to ecological factors. “The Lassa fever virus is transmitted by rodents which can be found in our environment,” the centre’s director-general Chikwe Ihekweazu said in a statement. Three days after the Ogun State government denied an outbreak of Lassa fever, a 26-year-old woman, Titilayo Akinsola, yesterday died of the disease in Abeokuta, the state capital. Our correspondent gathered that the woman was earlier rushed to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Idi-aba Abeokuta but died yesterday. The spokesman of the FMC, Segun Orisajo, confirmed the death to newsmen, saying the deceased was admitted to the hospital and a series of tests showed that she had Lassa fever. Orisajo hinted that the woman died after attempts by the medical team of the hospital to safe her life failed. “Yes she, was rushed to the hospital four days ago and series of tests confirmed that she had Lassa fever. Our medical team did everything possible to save her life but unfortunately she died,” he said. He however said the facility and state government were working to contain spread of the disease. The death came a few days after the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, debunked a reports by the Nigeria Center for Disease Control which designated Ogun as one of the states with case of Lassa Fever in the country. When contacted on the incident yesterday, Coker said, “It is true, someone died of Lassa fever in the state today (Saturday).” The Kaduna State government yesterday confirmed a case of Lassa fever in Chikun Local Government Area of the state. The government said  the patient was being treated at the designated Infectious Diseases Control Centre. A statement signed by the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Amina Mohammed-Baloni said tests had confirmed that the patient is a 36-year-old male. The commissioner assured that the ministry had supplied the infectious diseases control centre with the necessary commodities and health personnel were ready to manage any cases that may arise. ‘’The epidemiology unit is monitoring the situation closely, and all health facilities are on alert for prompt referral of suspected cases,’’ she assured. The commissioner also reiterated the ministry’s earlier appeal to the public to maintain the highest standard of individual hygiene and report any suspected case promptly to the nearest health facility. She also appealed to members of the public to keep food in proper storage. “Suspected cases should be reported to the State Epidemiology unit on 08036045755 or 08027396344 or contact the nearest local government health authority official,’’ statement added. It said all government health facilities were on alert to look out for cases of the disease. It was earlier reported that no fewer than 85 fresh cases of Lassa fever were recorded in Edo, Plateau, Ogun and Bauchi states. While 76 persons tested positive to the virus in Edo State, five cases were confirmed in Plateau and another three cases were recorded in Bauchi. Emergency response heightens as Lassa infections climb to 195 NCDC declares Lassa fever outbreak NCDC declares Lassa fever outbreak