Analyst at Sigma Pension has said investor focus has returned to various economic policy proposals aimed at addressing the macroeconomic imbalances across the Nigerian economy. The Chief Investment Officer, Mr. Pabina Yinkere, in his 2020 outlook, noted that the pressures on fiscal finances increasingly appear evident as the recently passed 2020 budget includes several measures (VAT hikes, introduction of stamp duties and further excise tax increments) designed to raise the federal government’s revenues. He said: “Overall, we believe that the investment landscape in 2020 will be shaped by: A largely favourable global economic environment and relaxed global monetary policy as well as a supportive oil price picture in the first half of the year,” he said. He identified greater impetus for implementation of capital budget as fiscal revenues improve, while also raising concerns regarding FX reserves and exchange rate outlook. He pointed to potential inflationary pressures from increases in tax and electricity tariffs. Yinkere anchored his projection on a more upbeat global economy as trade wars simmer, near term support for oil prices. He said:  “In a turnaround from the weak patch over 2019, global economic performance looks upbeat over 2020 driven by optimism about trade negotiations between the US and China. “Elsewhere, we see an increased likelihood of an orderly resolution of Brexit though we highlight that the lead-up to the US presidential elections in November could present sizable uncertainty to global financial markets. “That said, we think any concerns about political risk spillovers are likely to be tempered by further monetary policy accommodation by leading central banks. In all, the IMF expects the global economy to expand by 3.6% up from 3.5% in 2019.” He said for oil prices, the December 2019 agreement by OPEC and its allies to trim 1.7mbpd in crude oil production will keep global crude oil markets finely balanced with near term support for stronger crude oil prices. “We expect the Nigerian economy to remain on the path of slow recovery in 2020 largely helped by higher oil output, which will help mask the negative impact of tax increases on consumption spending. “On account of new oil production from the Egina oil field, we see oil sector growth remaining positive over 2020 though we highlight that Nigeria is likely to come under pressure from OPEC members to comply with agreed output reduction quotas (following significant under-compliance over 2019). This might cap upside to oil output which we expect to average 2.1mbpd in 2020,” he said. In the non-oil sector, the expert projected improvement in fiscal spending as well as implementation of the minimum wage increases to support economic activities. However, he noted that these gains are likely to be muted by the impact of tax measures (increased VAT and stamp duties), border closures and higher electricity tariffs on consumer disposable incomes. In all, they expect improvements in economic growth to be marginal and look for 2020 real GDP growth in the region of 2.5%. “Across other macroeconomic variables, we think imbalances in the external sector where a deficit has materialised will place downward pressure on the exchange rate.” Yinkere said the key risks to the 2020 outlook include: A reversal of the dovish monetary policy posture by the US Federal Reserve which could trigger a sell-off in capital markets across emerging and frontier markets from portfolio outflows. He also identified a failure of OPEC and its non-OPEC partners to agree to rollover the current production reduction agreement past Q1 2020 which could result in a larger than expected crude supply glut and drive crude prices towards USD50/bbl. Elections, tight monetary policy to subdue economic growth in 2019 – Experts FG: 2019 budget performance is 55% Nigeria: LCCI projects high cost of doing business in 2020