The former Managing Director of Gotel Communications owned by former vice president Atiku, John Chiahemen, has accused Atiku’s media aide, Paul Ibe, of an attempt to smear his reputation. Following complaints by expatriate journalists from reputable international media hired by Atiku to set up an international TV station, Gotel Africa, that their salaries had  not been paid, Ibe said all monies due for salaries were made available to Chiahemen, and advised all unpaid staff to contact him. In a statement, Ibe noted that a visitation committee had indicted Chiahemen on financial impropriety but that he refused to make himself available, saying a petition against him had been submitted to the police. “For the avoidance of doubt, the funds dedicated to the payment of salaries of staff, both local and expatriates that were engaged by Chiahemen himself were made available to him. All those concerned are advised to contact Mr Chiahemen accordingly,” Ibe stated. Responding, Chiahemen denied having any control on finances or  receiving money for salaries. “To be clear, funds dedicated to the payment of salaries of staff are not in my custody. The Group Financial Controller was the paymaster in all matters of funds relating to the Gotel Africa Project. Payrolls and operational funds were provided on a month-by-month basis, when they were, by the Financial Controller and my management merely disbursed them”, Chiahemen said. “I am aware that prior to my unceremonious removal as the managing director, payment of salaries had become difficult since mid-2015, and the Group Financial Controller had informed management on several occasions that this was due to the downturn in Nigerian economy. Consequently, management did not renew contracts for international staff when they came to an end and others agreed to cut theirs short and leave by the end of 2015”. Chiahemen noted that required funds for building the international channel, Gotel Africa, were not released to the management by the Group Financial Controller”,. On allegation of poor performance by Gotel management under him, Chiahemen said his team had  put Gotel on international satellite with footprints across Africa, the Middle East and parts of Western Europe before the license deadline of May 20, 2015. “We turned a local station in Yola into a national channel via the DTT platform of CONSAT, and Gotel could for the first time, be watched in Abuja, Lagos, Ibadan, Port Harcourt and other major cities”,  He noted all the services had been shut down as key satellite carriers cut the television station off for non-payment of platform fees.  Atiku denies appointing foreign social media consultant Frank says El-rufai lied on Atiku''s contribution to APC 2015 campaign Nobility and role of the press