US-based organisation, Reseau Docteur, a french phrase for ‘Doctors Network’, founded by a Nigerian, Dr. Alexander Oladele has every reason to celebrate as they have helped to rebuild the negative image of African Americans in the US since its formation in 2015. Furthermore, it has also contributed in making professionals out of many blacks through mentorship and sharing of ideas. “The goal of forming Reseau Docteur was to reverse the psychological impact that was affecting many African Americans at a point where a lot of black men were getting killed. Sadly, many of these images and interactions with police were televised. You can only imagine what happens to a people’s mental health after watching their own people become the victims of police brutality over and over again. We started Reseau Docteur with the intention of displaying positive images of black men and women in a variety of careers including medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, law etc. With time the organization began to grow and today we have much more than just a social media page. We have built a community of minority professionals where we can continue to share our visions,” he said. Reseau Docteur started through a social media page but has become a society of black professionals who impact their society through knowledge and mentorship. ‘There have been so many amazing moments. One of our most proudest is our yearly mentorship program where we provide mentorship to students all over the country by way of online webinar based discussions. It’s a 8-10 week program and each topic is presented by a Doctor or a professional student within our network. This program is for students who are interested in professional careers such as medicine, dentistry, pharmacy and to date we have awarded over 200+ students with certificates of completion. Another highlight is when, through the help of our social media community, I was able to raise over 6000 USD within 3 days for the victims of Hurricane Harvey, one of the most deadliest hurricanes to hit US mainlands. Members of our team then flew to Texas following the aftermath to provide money to the victims as well as aid during their time of difficulty,” Oladele stated. He added that America needs more black doctors and there is a wealth of data that shows that African Americans are more likely to trust a healthcare system when the health provider actually looks like them. “There is a huge gap within the healthcare community and it’s due to a lack of diversity. To date, Reseau Docteur has been an incredible resource to many professionals. We have provided referrals for employment opportunities, provided scholarships to students matriculating into college and also partnered with various organizations to amplify the importance of mentorship.While the organization began in 2015 simply as a network that featured just health professionals, we changed our strategy to include those in law, engineering and a variety of other disciplines to be more inclusive.” Although the original mission was all about blacks, but it has grown wider to encompass other minorities in the States. “It’s not necessarily just a black thing, we focus on under-represented professionals. We’ve posted many individuals who aren’t “black” because they have a compelling story or because we believe it would help inspire our followers in some way shape or form,” he quipped. The American Black Male as  Endangered Species If I was Jonathan Black male writers for our time