Gunmen early hours of Friday attacked Tawari community in Kogi local government area of Kogi killing 23 people. Among the casualties in the attack include the the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chairman Tawari ward, Ibrahim Simbabi,and the Chief Imam of the village, Malam Zakari Salihu. Although the Administrator of Kogi local government, Barr. Muhammed Tanko Musa Osuku and other government officials put the death toll at 19, natives said they counted 23 corpses with identified ethnic group. They claimed 20 Bassa Kwomu and 3 Gbagyi locals died while several persons including some policemen reportedly sustained serious injuries and are presently receiving treatment at the Koton Karfe general hospital and Federal Medical Centre Lokoja. Locals alleged the attackers who were of Fulani extraction, invaded the village at about 1.00 am on Friday, shooting sporadically setting houses, and churches ablaze. The Aguma of Tawari, HRH, Alhaji Idris Yusuf Tawari also confirmed to the Administrator that the attack was allegedly perpetrated by some Fulani people, adding that the attack started at about 12 midnight. Tawari is on the border between Nasarawa and Kogi states, where the Fulanis for long have been rearing cattle with little or no hitched. Recent happenings were said to have triggered bad blood between the Bassa Kwomus and Fulanis over disputes on farms and trespass herders and their animals. Daily Trust learnt, the herdsmen sometimes last year had one of them killed and his body mutilated by suspected ritualists, which they blamed on Tawari community and threatened a reprisal. However, the village head was said to have intervened and brokered a truce. Suleiman Inuwa a native of the community told our correspondent that the nomads were seen moving out of the area lately. “We didn’t suspect anything despite the mass exodus out of the area because it is the usual nomadic life to migrate in search of greener pastures. He said the attack was believed not to be unconnected with the recent killing of four suspected kidnappers and armed robbers along Lokoja Abuja federal highway by security agencies, following a tip off by vigilantes. “Some of the kidnapers may have been led to believe that those who gave them away were from Tawari and they lunched the reprisal, ” he claimed. The militia also burnt down the palace of the third class chief, Alhaji Yusuf Idris alongside several other houses in the Area, it was learnt. Meanwhile both the state government and the police command have condemned the attack in separate reaction. Governor Yahaya Bello in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Onogwu Muhammed, has directed security agencies to swing into action and ensure those who carried out the dastardly act faced the law. Governor Bello urged the people to be calm and law abiding, while assuring them of the determination of his Administration to flush out bandits and criminals out of Kogi State.
Also, the Commissioner of Police, Ede Ayuba Ekpeji described the attack as unfortunate. According to him, the command has deployed special Forces, Federal Anti-Robbery Squad, Counter Terrorism Unit, Police Mobile Force, as well as the conventional Police to the area. He also ordered the deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Investigation to commenced to investigation so as to unravel the cause of the attack. BREAKING: Gunmen attack Kogi community, kill 19, burn palace, houses Buhari condemns killing of 19 people in Kogi Gunmen attack Kogi community, kill 23