The Managing Director of Lasaco Assurance Plc, Mr. Segun Balogun, has expressed confidence the company will meet the N18 billion recapitalisation requirement set by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) by December 2020. Balogun, who disclosed that the company’s capital base stood at N4bn currently, said that as part of the strategies towards raising funds to jack up its capital base, the company’s management had reconstructed its shares. He explained: “We currently have over seven billion units of shares that have been issued to over 37,000 Nigerians at 50 kobo. So we agreed that to realise the recapitalisation plan, we will reconstruct the shares to the extent that the number of shares that have been issued becomes less. So instead of over seven billion shares that have been issued, we want to reduce it to one-third of that, which is about two billion plus. So we still have almost eight billion of shares unissued. “The implication of reconstructing the shares, would mean that if you have one unit of shares of LASACO, instead of the one unit being valued at 30 kobo or 40 kobo, it means one unit of shares of LASACO will now be that amount multiplied by three. At the par value, 50 kobo multiplied by 3 is N1.50 kobo for one unit of shares. At the price of 30 kobo which it is currently trading, the value of share of LASACO is now 90 kobo. “What this means for investors is greater returns because instead of you getting dividend of three kobo like we paid in 2017, or the four kobo that we paid in 2018, it means that what we will pay would be more significant. Instead of paying three kobo it will be nine kobo, instead of 4 kobo it will be 12 kobo, and this will be more meaningful. “Even at three kobo that was paid, if you look at all the quoted companies in Nigeria, you don’t have many companies paying as much as 10 per cent of the value of shares as dividend. If the value of your share is 30 kobo and you pay three kobo, that is 10 per cent. If the value of your share is 40 kobo and you pay four kobo, that is 12.5 per cent.’’ LASACO, which commenced business operations on August 1, 1980, has been celebrating its 40th anniversary in the past few weeks.  Cadbury awaits CAC confirmation on share capital reduction FMBN seeks N500bn recapitalisation ‘Insurance: Extension of recapitalisation deadline good for Nigeria’s economy’