President Muhammadu Buhari has promised to bequeath a free and fair election to his successor and the nation in 2023 as a beneficiary of such process. President Buhari, who spoke at a dinner with members of the legal team for the 2019 presidential election petition on Thursday in Abuja, said he was already looking forward to a peaceful hand over in 2023. The President, in a statement issued yesterday by his media aide Garba Shehu, told the legal team that he was morally bound to fullfil that wish. He said the turnout of Nigerians during his presidential campaigns to the 36 states of the Federation in 2019 convinced him that his re-election was not a fluke. The President, who lauded the legal team led by Chief Wole Olanipekun, SAN, for the outstanding legal successes recorded in the presidential election petition, also praised them for the effective legal strategy that thrived in piloting his election litigation. He added that the legal team’s enormous contributions had affirmed the rule of law and further entrenched democratic governance in Nigeria. The President, while speaking on behalf of the All Progressives Congress (APC), told the team to accept his commendations and best wishes for their meritorious service. The lead counsel, Chief Olanipekun, who said the legal victory was won based on the facts of the law, stressed that the President never used his position or office to influence the decision of the Courts. The lead counsel said: “The courts were allowed to do their job, Mr President and I must commend you for that Sir. Nobody whispered to anyone of us, how we are going to see Judge A or Judge B. That’s the way it should be. Judges must be allowed and be given free hand to do their job. “Mr President, we are happy to have been called upon and we are happy that we delivered.” On electoral reforms, Olanipekun acknowledged that while the National Assembly was doing something about the Electoral Act, the Act requires some “rejigging and cleansing.” “We are happy to know that the National Assembly is doing something about the Electoral law. “We are ready to cooperate with them without taking a dime, whether as consultants, whether as legal practitioners, whether as experts. If the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) will co-opt us we are ready to give assistance,” he said. Olanipekun, who hailed the President’s commitment to the rule of law, said “it is the surest legacy Mr President can bequeath to our dear nation.” Nobody will force himself on Nigerians in 2023 – Buhari How Buhari, Atiku, INEC spent billions at tribunal 2023: I’ll stop desperate politicians – Buhari