The Lagos State chapter of the APC yesterday elected three members into vacant positions in the state working committee. Those elected included ex-Commissioner for Special Duties, Oluseye Oladejo (Publicity Secretary), former member of Lagos House of Assembly from Ojo II Constituency, Lanre Ogunyemi (secretary) and a legal practitioner, Mrs Abimbola Ladigbolu, as assistant legal adviser. The positions became vacant, following the appointments of former occupiers as commissioner and special advisers by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The new officers were elected during the Special Congress held at the party’s secretariat along Acme road, Ogba. Oladejo, a former chairman of Mushin Local Government Area and one-time Special Adviser to ex-Governor Babatunde Fashola on Commerce and Industry replaced Joe Igbokwe, who is currently Special Adviser to Sanwo-Olu on Drainage and Water Resources. Ogunyemi, who was a former Secretary of Alliance for Democracy (AD) in Lagos State, succeeded the immediate past APC Secretary, Dr Wale Ahmed, who is currently Commissioner for Special Duties and Intergovernmental Relations, while Ladigbolu replaced Mrs Toke Benson-Awoyinka, who is currently the Special Adviser on Housing to Governor Sanwo-Olu. The state chairman, Tunde Balogun, said the newly elected members had served the parties in different capacities in the state, saying they were competent and capable of discharging the functions of their offices. Balogun, who said Lagos APC adopted consensus in getting replacement for the vacant offices, added that the congress was held to ratify the election of the new executives. The new spokesman said he would project the party’s image positively, saying his appointment was a call to duty. “I appreciate the leadership of the party, starting from the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and all other leaders and members of our party for deeming it fit to make me the official spokesman of the APC in Lagos State. “Personally, I see it as a call to service at another level. I have been around for quite some time within the party and within the government. My duty is to make sure that we disseminate information at the party level, we promote the party interest and communicate with members of the public in the best way possible that our party and our government can serve the interest of the general public,” he said. Igbokwe, Akande, 11 others make Sanwo-Olu’s final cabinet list Disquiet in Lagos APC as Ambode’s aide joins gov’ship race Lagos: Sanwo-Olu swears-in Tunji Bello, others as Commissioners, Advisers