President Muhammadu Buhari has reversed the suspension of the Managing Director of the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), Mrs Damilola Ogunbiyi. President Buhari also notified the United Nations headquarters of her resignation. A tweet by the Presidency on Tuesday afternoon announced the change. It said: “Her resignation effective 31 December 2019 has been accepted to enable her take up her new United Nations (UN) appointment.” Daily Trust reports that the Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman in a statement had directed the immediate suspension of Ogunbiyi on December 23, 2019 over ‘‘infractions’’. However, a letter from the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha and  referenced to the Deputy Secretary General, at the UN headquarters in New York, United States, Hajiya Amina Mohammed, conveyed the resignation notice. The letter dated 6 January 2020 and signed by Dr Habiba Lawal, the Permanent Secretary, Ecological Fund office on behalf of the SGF, said Buhari reviewed the situation and directed him to reverse the suspension for lack of due process. “I also wish to inform you that the resignation of Mrs Damilola Ogunbiyi has fallen due by 31st December 2019 and I urge you to give her all necessary support. Please accept the assurances of the warm regards of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation,” it said. Recall that a week after the suspension, the Minister announced the appointment of Ahmad SalIhijo Ahmad as the new MD of REA. While Ahmad assumed office at REA two days after the announcement, Ogunbiyi who had gotten a UN appointment since October 2019, announced her assumption at the duty post on 2 January, 2020. Ogunbiyi is serving as the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Sustainable Energy for All, Co-Chair of UN Energy, and CEO of Sustainable Energy for All. Buhari reverses suspension of former MD of REA, Ogunbiyi REA former boss, Ogunbiyi, assumes duty at UN REA MD, Salihijo assumes office, 2 days after appointment