Kaduna state Police Command has confirmed the attacked on the Emir of Potiskum, Alhaji Umaru Bubaram, along Kaduna – Zaria highway. The Police command said six persons were also killed during the attack while five persons sustained varying degree of injuries. The police, in a statement signed by the Command’s spokesman, DSP Yakubu Sabo, said unknown armed men in large numbers dressed in military camouflage intercepted commuters at the outskirt of Kaduna Metro along Kaduna-Zaria Expressway. According to him, the gunmen on sighting the escort vehicle of the Emir of Potiskum started shooting sporadically. He said the hoodlums also took some yet to be identified persons to unknown destination. Sabo said the command got the information from the DPO, Maraban Jos through a good samaritan early Wednesday morning. “Upon receipt of the information, the Command immediately mobilized teams of operatives with Armored Personnel Carriers to the scene where some victims of the attack were rescued to safety but sadly six (6) persons including four aides of the Emir were reported dead while Five (5) others sustained varying degree of injuries. Both the dead and injured victims were recovered to Barau Dikko Teaching Hospital‎,” he said. He said the state’s Commissioner of Police, CP Umar M. Muri, has directed that more Police operatives be deployed along the axis to reinforce the existing operational units of SARS Anti-Kidnapping and PMF personnel currently on operation on the highway. He equally alerted the Police intelligence gathering units in the area to redouble their effort to ensure that the victims are rescued unhurt and the culprits brought to book to face justice. He confirmed that the CP has also visited both the scene of the incident and the injured persons including the Emir at the Barau Dikko Hospital. Breaking: Gunmen attack emir of Potiskum, kill 3 aides Police arrest kidnappers of lawmaker, three ABU students, others in Kaduna Commercial drivers cry out as kidnappers return to Kaduna-Abuja expressway