The Lagos State Government has finally banned commercial motorcyles and tricycles in 15 local government areas of the state. All major highways and bridges are affected from the ban which the government said would protect lives and properties. The state government said full enforcement of the ban would commence on Saturday, February 1. READ: OPAY, MAX.NG MAY GO AS LAGOS DECIDES ON OKADA, TRICYCLE OPERATION The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotosho, announced this at a press conference on Monday. “After consultations with stakeholders, the State Security Council, in compliance with the extant Transport Sector Reform Law 2018, has decided to commence enforcement of the law which bans the operation of Motorcycles (Okada) and Tricycles (Keke) in the following Local Governments (LGs) and Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs). “The local governments are Apapa LG and Apapa Iganmu LCDA; Lagos Mainland LG and Yaba LCDA; Surulere LG, Itire-Ikate and Coker-Aguda LCDAs; Ikeja LG, Onigbongbo and Ojodu LCDAs; Eti-Osa LG, Ikoyi-Obalende and Iru/Victoria Island LCDAs; Lagos Island LG and Lagos Island East LCDA. “This is the first stage of the State Government’s plan to sanitize our roads and protect Lagosians from the negative effects of these illegal modes of transportation. “The Law is very clear.  Motorcycles (Okada) and Tricycles (Keke) are banned on all highways, bridges and the listed roads,” he said. ALSO READ: SANWO-OLU MEETS SECURITY CHIEFS, TO OVERHAUL OKADA ACTIVITIES Daily Trust reports that the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, had on June 17, 2019 met with top security chiefs in the state where he unveiled his plans to overhaul activities of commercial motorcyclists, popularly known as okada riders in the state. The Governor had said the regulation was necessary to curtail emerging security threats in the state. Daily Trust also reports that, in recent times, there has been a resurgence of Okada on the highways by operators of bike-hailng services, including Opay, Max.ng, Gokada, among others. It would be recalled that the state police command in December 2019 also arrested dozens of the operators for allegedly flouting the traffic laws. Sanwo-Olu said the security overhaul would also focus on activities of Okada and Keke Marwa (tricycle) riders as well as road regulations, stressing that his government would embark on advocacy on the existing restriction laws for motorcycles and tricycles. Lagos dismisses list of prohibited Okada routes Lagos govt delays 'restriction' on motorcycles, tricycles operation Lagos tarries on 'restricting' motorcycle, tricycle operations