Leaders and chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo State are meeting ahead of the January 25 re-run for Isiala Mbano/Onuimo/Okigwe North federal constituency and vacant position created by the death of the senator representing Okigwe north senatorial zone. The two offices became vacant, following the nullification of the election of Representative Obinna Onwubariri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the demise of Senator Ben Uwajumogu of the APC. In one of such meetings, the Chief Executive of New Partnership for African’s Development (NEPAD), Princess Gloria Akobundu, said that the move was in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive to all APC leaders to begin the process of rebuilding the party from grassroots in their various localities. Princess Akobundu urged Imo APC leaders to shun rancor and work together to rebuild the party. She said the party’s future rested on the ability of leaders to brace up for challenges and fight for a common goal without witch-hunting one another. Akobundu, who delivered President Muhammadu Buhari’s New Year message to APC loyalists in the state, urged members to remain committed to the party and its programmes. She said President Buhari had shown good faith to Imo by appointing some people from the state into key positions, adding that the only way to reciprocate was by supporting his administration. She said there is no faction in the state chapter of the APC, adding that the time has come for all party leaders to come together and proffer solution that will move the party forward. “Mr President has directed APC leaders to galvanize support for the party from the grassroots and this meeting today is one of such meetings aimed at uniting the party and repositioning it to a greater height. “This meeting is also to act in accordance with the president’s directive and I am happy that we will come out to be more united and strengthened,” she said. She urged party chairmen in the 27 local government areas (LGAs) to brace up for the challenges and ensure that party loyalists were carried along in the activities of the party. She said President Buhari had done a lot to put the APC on track, warning those criticizing the party to discredit the efforts of Mr President to stop doing so. In his speech, the State APC Chairman, Mr Maicon Nlemigbo, said the meeting would help to galvanize more support and commitment from the grassroots. He expressed optimism that Supreme Court will give the party favorable judgment, adding that the massive vote Imo electorate gave Sen. Hope Uzodinma in the last governorship election must be reclaimed. Imo APC strategises ahead of senatorial, H/Reps re-run Imo APC crisis: We have no governorship candidate yet – Ekechi 2019: Imo and anointing of Uzodinma