The Lagos State police command has disclosed it arrested over 700 criminal suspects in the last two months. The command said it rounded up about 300 suspects, including 100 members of the notorious One Million Boys cult group, yesterday alone in the Ajeromi-Ifelodun local government area of the state. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, at his maiden press briefing held yesterday at the Command Headquarters, Ikeja, said the police arrested 114 armed robbery suspects and foiled 72 armed robbery attacks within the two months. Odumosu added that seven armed robbery suspects died during exchanges of fire with the police. Forty-six suspects, the police boss said, were also arrested for cultism, three suspects for kidnapping and 82 suspects for murder. He said the state recorded nine cases of suicide and recovered 25 assorted firearms, with lots of ammunition of different calibres. “The Command also recovered 11 stolen vehicles. A total of 2,300 motorcycles were impounded from recalcitrant commercial motorcyclists across the state between November 18 and December 31, 2019. All the motorcycles impounded were handed over to the Taskforce in Oshodi, for further action. Meanwhile, the exercise is being intensified. “A total of 447 suspects were arrested over the last one month and taken to the Taskforce, Oshodi, for further action. Out of this number, 53 were warned and released, while 394 were charged to court. Out of those charged to court, 296 were convicted, while 98 are still awaiting trial. “Three hundred and eighty-three suspects were arrested in a clampdown on social miscreants. The Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants, which I established, took the battle to the doorsteps of social miscreants at Ikorodu, Agege, Itire, Isheri-Oshun and Oshodi. Out of this number, 38 were warned and released, while 87 were charged to court. Sixty-seven are currently being profiled. “Two locally made pistols with 30 unexpended cartridges were recovered. Bags of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp and some cutlasses/axes were also recovered from the hoodlums,” he added.  Police nab wanted cult leader Enugu police arrest alleged killers of 2 Catholic priests Police arrest dog, 2 persons over robbery