Experts and top public officials in the power sector are searching for innovations and strategies to raise power distribution capacity beyond 4,000 megawatts (MW) to revive the ailing power sector. In this analysis, Daily Trust takes a critical appraisal of these issues, which topped the agenda at the recent International Conference on Energy, Power Systems Operations and Planning (ICEPSOP 2020) in Abuja. With growing concerns over government’s inability to build a strong distribution infrastructure needed to guarantee improved electricity in the country, experts in the sector converged in Abuja a few days ago to chart a new course for adequate investments and innovative strategies that they considered critical to improving power supply nationwide on a sustainable basis. The experts at various panel sessions focused on different areas of the power sector, from the integration of renewable energy into the national grid to the infusion of cyber security to deliver a smart grid network. After a rigorous analysis of the issues raised at the session, the industry stakeholders agreed that in spite of investments, only collaborations among the various public and private agencies in the sector can engender improvement of electricity supply. Speaking during one of the sessions, a researcher from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and one of the panelists, Mr. Jonathan Okoronkwo, said that if infrastructure improves and power generation to distribution can match the nearly 20,000MW demand, there would be no system collapse on the power transmission grid. He said: “Because of the frequent system collapses, we are trying to think if all the discos, for instance, takes all the load, will it stop it. There is a simple equation stating that when generation matches demand, that makes the system to be stable, but once there is a deviation, the frequency goes high or down and the system surely goes down.” Okoronkwo also said there was the need to proactively insert a renewable energy source solution to the grid to balance the frequency and avoid a system collapse, adding that the added power generation from solar, hydro or wind power can stabilize the grid and prevent system collapse, he submitted. Another panelist, Engr. Mustapha Balarabe Shehu, whose firm, MBS Engineering Limited conducted the Feasibility Studies for electric power supply to Eko Atlantic City in Lagos on behalf of TCN, explained why it was imperative to plan for electricity gap while developing modern cities. TCN is working with the developers to begin transmission of about 300MW of power to the City and then upgrade that capacity to 1,000MW as the demand rises. In his contribution at the panel session, a renewable energy expert from the University of Nigerian, Nsukka, Mr. P.C. Obodo, said apart from building adequate conventional power facilities, using empirical modelling of solar energy for the national grid could complement the conventional power plants’ capacity and improve reliability of electricity supply nationwide. Harping on the increasing importance of solar power to the nation’s development, Obodo pointed out that “if you flew across Nigeria in the night, most of part of the country is purely dark while in the day we have enough solar energy that can be used to produce light at night.” FG to expand grid capacity with Siemens deal The Minister of Power, Engr. Saleh Mamman, in his opening remarks at the conference assured of government’s determination to accelerate the completion of various power projects to improve access to electricity for the Nigerian populace. The minister explained that the implementation of the various expansion projects would be done in line with the Nigerian Electrification Roadmap (NER) that stipulates some focal areas, especially on infrastructure alignment. Nigeria is awaiting the disbursement of a tranche of $3 billion loan from the World Bank which it will fund NER to be executed by Siemens Electric of Germany expectedly from April 2020, especially in expanding transmission and distribution assets nationwide. Mamman said: “The Nigerian government believes that exploring this step is where they stand to make the biggest impact in terms of energy access. The strategy for us is a top to down approach of grid extension, and bottom to top approach of expanding distribution. The ministry is enhancing partnership with the private sector to increase a more predictable and amiable business environment.” On why the NERC decided to host the conference, the Chairman, Prof. James Momoh, said the forum was organized to provide the required environment to explore innovative regulatory approaches. Momoh, who expressed optimism about the sector’s improvement potential, enthused: “I have a dream that there will be power all over Nigeria, there will be meters. I have a dream that one day, my people Nigerians, will have power 24/7. I have a dream that Nigeria will overcome all pressures.” In his presentation on the Overview of Cyber Security for Cyber Physical Power System, Momoh highlighted contemporary measures, including the development of various researches in modeling the devices that make up the micro power grid, to protect power systems information technology facilities from cyber-attacks. Also, the Managing Director of TCN, Mr. U.G. Mohammed, called for more investments in power distribution networks, and the need to have multiple traders of bulk electricity, to drive competition in the Nigerian Electricity Market. Speaking during a panel session in which he served as chairman on the integration of distributed and renewable energy sources and grid issues, Mohammed said the distribution grid can’t take beyond 4,000MW and that until that capacity is boosted, power generation and transmission may be limited only to what the Distribution Companies (DisCos) can take. Mohammed recounted the efforts the TCN was making to increase the bulk power wheeling capacity nationwide, including the replacement of faulty transformers through an ongoing $1.661 billion donor funds and another $700 million private partnership funding. He clarified: “All the efforts we have been doing to stabilise and modernise the grid will not be effective if there is no investment on the side of the DisCos. As at today, I can’t tell you that I have solved the problems of transmission but every place where there is a constraint, I will tell you when that constrained will be solved.” In his closing remarks, the Minister of State, Power, Mr Goddy Jedy-Agba said: This is a step in the right direction as it involves the young generation who present hope for a brighter future in home-grown technology that will address the challenges of the power sector.”  NPDHC: Reforming power sector with 10 GenCos, 21,000 substations FCMB wants collaboration in agric, power sectors Power: Renewables, additive to light-up 100m Nigerians