A stalwart of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Asiwaju Rotimi Ajanaku, has blamed all forms of impunity, injustice and lawlessness in the country on the inability of the National Assembly to make decisive laws. He also blamed incessant harassment, torment, humiliation of innocent Nigerians and passion for lawlessness, and disrespect for the rule of law exhibited by the personnel of the Security agencies on the  weaknesses of the legislators. Asiwaju, who spoke with Journalists in Ibadan, said he was also a victim of the unethical behaviour of the security agencies in 2019 prior to the general election in Oyo State. He said: “My statement here may sound unfriendly to some people, but frankly speaking, Nigeria can’t progress untill the attitude of the security personnel in the country changed. What is responsible for the lukewarmness and weaknesses of the legislators at the National Assembly could be traced to corruption, incompetency and desperation of the people we elected to speak for and on behalf of us. “Legislators have abandoned the people who elected them to their various offices, now fight for personal gains and desperate as well to retain their positions after the constitutional term of 4years per term. This action has sold them to slavery and rendered them incapacitated to fight against injustice in Nigeria.” Ajanaku, however, admonished the legislators to rise against all forms of impunity, injustice and lawlessness in 2020. He described this as the only way to move Nigeria to the next level of progress economically and attract good and better foreign investors. “The rights of Nigerians as stated in the chapter 4 of the constitution of the federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 as amended are not violated. Perhaps we are ignorant of the fact that no serious minded person would invest his hard-earned money in a country where personnel of security agencies keep rebelling against court orders, displaying act of thuggery and exercise mad passion for lawlessness. “Legislators should wake up and live up to expectation to avoid situation where people will rise to defend themselves and the democracy that our past heros laid down their lives for. When you stretch the limits of the people beyond bearable, expect them to fight back and also be ready to bear or responsible for whatever consequences that come from their barbaric actions against harmless and innocent citizens of this great country. “My advice for political parties is to ensure they allow credible, knowledgeable, self-discipline, professionally qualified candidates with good and clear means of livelihood to flag the tickets of their parties in the coming elections,” he warned. Impeachments: How far can Jonathan go against opposition? The Daura Affair and  threats to the democratic order The Daura Affair and  threats to the democratic order