A 30 year-old man, Auwalu Abubakar has been sentenced to six months imprisonment having been convicted of theft by a Wuse Magistrate Court sitting in Abuja. The prosecutor, Bunmi Ayemola, had told the court  that the convict, who is a personal driver to Mr. Umar Shuaibu of Biz Sunshine Estate, Gwarinpa, was entrusted with a Toyota Avensis with registration no: GWA 09 AW valued N1,500,000  and two phones, an Infinix Note 5 and a Tecno Spark 3 valued 150,000 belonging to Kabiru and Ibrahim Sulieman respectively and he  absconded with them. The prosecutor said Abubakar was tracked and arrested along Gwarumai, Zaria Road, Kaduna State, and it was discovered that  he changed the registration number of the car and produced vehicle particulars in his name. He also  used the particulars to exchange the car for a Toyota Corolla with registration number; MWA 887 AA. “Before this court is a fresh FIR against the defendant, with the leave of this court, I pray that the FIR be read to the defendant so he can take his plea. The defendant understands both Hausa and English language,” Ayemola urged the court. Abubakar, who pleaded guilty to the car theft charge, however, denied stealing any phone. “I took the Toyota Avensis because I was working with the owner of the car. That day, I took his son to school, from there I carried passengers after which I went away with the car. I exchanged the car with a Corolla in Adamawa State and carried passengers from Adamawa to Kaduna. “I admit to have committed the offence but I want the court to temper justice with mercy because I have no previous record of theft and I have a wife and son to cater for,” he said. The prosecutor therefore, urged the court  to convict Abubakar pursuant to section 289 of the penal code law. The Magistrate, Musa Jobbo, while sentencing him said he took  the plea of the defendant because he appeared to be remorseful but that  he must be punished to prevent him from committing similar offence and also to serve as a deterrent to future offenders. “I hereby sentence the defendant to six months imprisonment with no option of fine. The sentence passed on the defendant is for admission of committing the crime,” he said. He adjourned the case to February 20, 2020 for the prosecution to come forward and prove the phones theft charge against the defendant.  Man jailed for reckless driving Story 3 original page 49