Imagine an unsuspecting Nigerian pensioner being underpaid or overpaid for years due to wrong pension calculations by the National Pension Commission (PenCom), or profit-seeking Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs), only for that elderly person to receive a letter demanding for the refund of the overpayment. On the other side of the story, imagine another pensioner who has been consistently underpaid for decades without knowing that the monthly inadequate pension he receives is based on wrong pension calculations by administrators in his former place of work. In the two scenarios, the overpaid pensioner’s house has to be sold to recover the money overpaid, while the system made no effort to pay the underpaid pensioner who had no idea of being short-changed. The two scenarios actually occurred in the United Kingdom where thousands of pensioners were either overpaid or underpaid due to calculation errors by administrators. Ben Wilkinson writing for the Daily Mail reported in the January 22, 2020 edition of the newspaper that, “Reviews of pension calculations have uncovered tens of thousands of errors. For decades some pensioners have been overpaid and others underpaid. Many are hit with demands for money they had no idea they were not entitled to.” To further complicate the situation, “complaints about pension errors have soared,” he reported. How did the massive error happen? “Many errors, some dating back four decades, stemmed from when those in final salary pension schemes were ‘contracted out’ of paying full state pension contributions, and allowed to pay reduced National Insurance rates between 1978 and 1997.” The error came to light “when contracting out was banned in 2016, pensions schemes began to compare data with HM Revenue and Customs and found many mismatches – mainly due to poor record keeping and human error.” If such a big pension blunder has played out in the United Kingdom, it could equally happen in Nigeria. Or it might actually be happening, concealed from the relevant authorities. Pension calculations errors occurred in Nigeria too, a country where the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) detected more than 20,000 ghost pensioners who were created and fraudulently inserted into the Federal Government pension payrolls. The pension calculation error in Nigeria came to light when the Executive Secretary of PTAD, Dr. Chioma Ejikeme, disclosed that the Directorate was engaged in verification exercises and biometrics capture partly to clear some issues, including overpayment and underpayment. “There are issues of those who are being underpaid and issues of pensioners who are being overpaid. We are here to harmonise everything and make sure that every eligible pensioner is getting their due entitlements,” she said. Dr. Chioma Ejikeme did not disclose the amount of money involved in overpayments or underpayments; nor the number of pensioners that fell victims to the error. It will be appropriate for PTAD to disclose the number of pensioners involved, and amount of money underpaid, overpaid and recovered. The lesson for PTAD is that in the pension calculation error in the United Kingdom it was discovered that “the Civil Service Pension Scheme alone, which has one million members, found 10,000 pensions with errors and overpayments of £22 million.” The National Pension Commission too received a complaint on alleged underpayment by seven retired police officers who threatened to file a suit against the commission and the police authorities over alleged underpayment of their gratuities. But PenCom proved to the officers that they were paid fully based on their records of service. This vividly shows the importance of proper record keeping. The NPF Pensions Ltd told their lawyer that the amount paid to the ex-policeman was what was due to them in compliance with PenCom’s regulations. However, one area PenCom needs to pay close attention to is the long delay in remitting income due to RSAs by some PFAs. The delay could be dubious, especially in the absence of any reasonable explanation.  Don’t blame pension managers for pension crisis PTAD eliminates 3,000 police ghost pensioners PenCom cautions pension contributors, pensioners against kickbacks