The Federal Government on Tuesday disclosed that about 6 million Nigerians from 1.82 million households have benefitted from the Federal Government Cash Transfer Programme since it commenced. The National Coordinator National Cash Transfer Office (NCTO), Dr. Temitope Sinkaiye, disclosed this  in her keynote address  at a “One-Day media and citizen sensitization workshop on the Federal Government Anti-Corruption Programme and Behavioural Change in Nigeria” organised by the Centre for Social Justice (CSJ), African Network for Environmental  and Economic Justice (ANEEJ) and the UKAID DFID in Abuja. The event was part of the project on the monitoring of the disbursement of Abacha $322m loot disbursement across the North Central States. “As at today, and the number keeps increasing, we have 1.82m household beneficiaries as of today (yesterday). But when you translate it to individual, we have covered about six million individuals with this program, benefiting from the N5000 monthly benefits, for the households, from the monthly transfers,” she said. According to her, the NCTO has zero tolerance for corruption, as the office, now under the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, is strong on transparency and accountability. The National Coordinator explained that the Office had an open relation with third party monitors, particularly with African Network for Environmental and Economic Justice (ANEEJ) who are at the grass root helping to ensure that stipends to the beneficiaries are disbursed to the rightful beneficiaries. In his comments, the Programme Officer, Good Governance, CSJ, Mr. Victor Emejuiwe, said that the event was part of activities to ensuring accountability in governance and also to ensuring the success of the anti-corruption efforts in the country. Cash transfer: 22,000 beneficiaries enrolled in Kwara Buhari’s social investment programmes meeting needs of ordinary Nigerians 54,000 households to benefit from FG’s cash transfer programme in Zamfara—official