The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Abubakar Sadique, has said that the national policy on community policing that has been approved by President Muhammadu Buhari will be funded. Air Marshall Sadique said this Friday while briefing State House Correspondents after a meeting with President Muhammadu. He appealed to all Nigerians and other stakeholders to join hands with the armed forces and other security and intelligence agencies to ensure that the country was secured rather than looking at other methods that might negate the approved national policy on community policing. “The whole idea is to ensure that Nigeria is secured and Nigerians can go about pursuing their legitimate aspirations without any hindrance. “What we expect is for all stakeholders, local government, state government, other stakeholders to join hands with us, let us work together to ensure that our country is secured,” he added. The Chief of Air Staff said the meeting which was used to “critically” evaluate the ongoing security operations and the emerging situations in different areas across the country was satisfied with the support of the Federal Government in terms of procurement of the military equipment. The security chief, who said some of the equipment were being expected by the end of February, stated that the Nigerian Air Force received two helicopter gun-shoots on January 15. He said, “We are now in the process of putting them together which will add to whatever we have. “We are equally expecting other equipment like I said that are meant for the armed forces of Nigeria which we are hoping to get by the end of February. I am sure you are also familiar with the equipment acquisition by the Nigerian Police Force. “Basically, that is what this meeting is all about and what we want to do here is to reassure Nigerians that the armed forces of Nigeria and indeed security and intelligence agencies in Nigeria are going to continue to work round the clock to ensure that our country is secured and to ensure that nobody undermines the territorial integrity and national sovereignty of Nigeria. “We are going to keep a very close watch on what is going on and with the equipment that we are getting, definitely, the challenges we are facing in some of the theaters of operation particularly the North East will be addressed adequately. “We are doing everything with the other sister countries in the Lake Chad Basin working together to ensure that the Boko Haram terrorism is brought substantially to an end as quickly as possible.” Our strategy on insecurity working — Security chiefs BREAKING: Military to pull out of Northeast next year – CNS Military set to withdraw from volatile areas