As the Western Nigeria security outfit codenamed “Operation Amotekun” took off yesterday, the governors of the six South-West states have assuaged misgivings in the polity, saying the initiative is not an agenda to break up from Nigeria. Besides, they emphasized that the security outfit is not a duplicate or replacement for the Nigeria Police Force, neither was it a Regional Police. The governors also declared their commitment to the unity of Nigeria, saying the security outfit would complement the existing conventional security agencies. They spoke at the launch of the Western Nigeria Security Network (WNSN) in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital. It would be recalled that the governors of the six states in the south west comprising Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ekiti and Ondo came up with the initiative six months ago following the spate of kidnappings and armed banditry in the region. However, the initiative came to fruition yesterday as the Governors under the aegis of the Western Nigeria Governors’ Forum (WNGF) converged on Ibadan for the launch of Operation Amotekun. The host Oyo state governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde; the convener and Chairman of WNGF, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo state, and Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State were physically present. Governors Gboyega Oyetola of Osun state and Dapo Abiodun of Ogun were represented by their deputies Mr. Benedict Olugboyega Alabi and Alhaja Naimot Salako- Oyedele respectively, while the Lagos Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu was neither present nor represented. Prominent traditional rulers led by the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi were present while the President of World Yoruba Forum, Prof. Banji Akintoye led other Yoruba self-determination groups to the event. Amidst the growing misgivings in the polity over the launch, the Ondo state Governor clarified that Operation Amotekun is not an alternative to the police force but will complement the conventional security outfits. Akeredolu who disclosed that each of the six states had procured over 20 vehicles with Oyo providing over 30 said the operational framework of the initiative is being handled by the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) Commission. He said the commission had taken note of the grey areas raised by the Nigerian Police Force, explaining that activities of Amotekun would be revealed to the police to ensure they conform to acceptable standards. “There is no state that I will say is immune to the negative impact of insecurity, or negative impact of this menace that is permeating the society today. “Until recently, it has become very embarrassing when you have reports of security breaches as they occurred on a daily basis. Most of us have been very worried about it, particularly when they say so, so and so happened in Osun State, another one in Ondo State and sometime in Ekiti State. Some of us are worried because we believe that its negative impact on us has been enormous. “All we want to do is to complement all these efforts. It is not our intentions to erect any antagonistic structure, whose operation will be at cross purposes to the existing template of defence; that is not what we are here for.” On his part, Fayemi, who is also the Chairman of Nigeria Governors Forum, said the western security initiative became imperative as the region was “daily assaulted” by spate of kidnappings, banditry and kidnapping. He clarified that the western security initiative was not an agenda to “undermine the integrity of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” adding it was a confidence building strategy pending the time the Nigerian Police would come up with community policing strategy. He said it was in the course of the insecurity that the region lost the daughter of a prominent Afenifere leader, Pa Reuben Fashoranti, Mrs. Funke Olakunrin in July last year. “Amotekun is not a duplicate or replacement of the Nigeria Police Force,” he said. Ooni of Ife lauded the governors for setting aside political differences to work in the interest of the region, saying the traditional institutions are fully in support of the initiative. He said after conferring with prominent traditional rulers in the land, he tabled the matter before President Muhammadu Buhari who graciously approved the initiative. Also speaking Yoruba leader, Banji Akintoye emphasized that there is no agenda to break up the Federal Republic of Nigeria, saying the governors were not brought up to break up the nation.  Details scanty as ‘Operation Amotekun’ starts in S/West Anxiety as South-West stakeholders storm Ibadan for Amotekun launch S/west security outfit, Amotekun, takes off Jan. 9 — Fayemi