Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said Nigeria is open to more investments from foreign companies, including Turkey, in the areas of construction, manufacturing, technology and other sectors. Osinbajo said this when he received a Turkish business delegation led by Turkey’s Minister of Trade, Ruhsar Pekcan, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The Vice President said he looked forward to greater cooperation between Nigeria and Turkey by exploring other areas to deepen economic ties as the two countries’ had had bilateral relations for decades and maintained close cooperation in international organizations. “I think also that more opportunities will come for further interactions with Turkey, especially in the light of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement we just signed. I believe very strongly that this is an opportunity also for Turkey to participate fully in the African economies, in particular, Nigeria’s economy. As you are well aware, several Turkish companies are already operating in Nigeria, in construction, manufacturing and other areas,” said Osinbajo in a statement issued yesterday by his spokesman Laolu Akande. The Turkish Minister of Trade, in her remarks, said the Turkish government is looking forward to improving the bilateral trade volume between Nigeria and Turkey and deepening economic ties. She noted that there are several Turkish companies already in Nigeria and Turkish investors willing to invest in different sectors in the country. Pekcan also thanked the Nigerian government for its continued support in tackling the global threat of terrorism. Senior government officials at the meeting included the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Chief Niyi Adebayo; Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Amb. Zubairu Dada; and the Executive Director/ CEO, Nigerian Export Promotion Council, Mr. Segun Awolowo. Earlier, the Vice President received a delegation of the Law Students Association of Nigeria (LAWSAN), the umbrella body of all law students in the country. In his remarks, the President of the Law students body, Mr. Emmanuel Nwobodo, said the campaign is part of the association’s drive to give back to society. Key Takeaways From President Muhammadu Buhari’s Four-Day Engagement in Turkey Amb. Cakil: Making Turkey, Nigeria relationship work Key takeaways from Buhari’s Four-Day engagement in Turkey