Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi says southwest governors cannot misuse the security outfit launched last Thursday, Amotekun, because of the mechanism put in place. He said this at the weekend while responding to questions from a delegation of Media Trust Limited, publishers of Daily Trust newspapers, who visited him in Abuja. Fayemi, who is the chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, said the security outfit was established as a confidence building measure to include people in community policing arrangement in order to tackle various security challenges in the southwest. He said thought the Nigeria Police Force was “trying, it had been “overstretched”. He said, “Look, there’s nothing we’re doing that has not been done. On Friday, Governor Babagana Zulum, it’s in your paper, was handing over vehicles to military, police, and Civilian Joint Task Force. Please, what is civilian JTF? I’m sure you know what Civilian JTF means. Why is Civilian JTF very relevant in the northeast? They know the terrain. They know the culture. They know the people. They’ve better intelligence than even the security agencies. This is because those responsible for this problem, they live among them. “Boko Haram insurgents are not from outer space. They’re from this Nigeria. And they live among people. Why are we denying? In every country, what we’re doing is a matter of course. It’s not an exception at all. So, the notion that if you allow governors to do this, they would abuse it to intimidate opponents, fine, let them try and intimidate opponents. One of the reasons why this (Amotekun) is regional is that we don’t want anyone to reduce it to a machinery of oppression against their people. “The primary role they have is to gather intelligence and provide this intelligence. If they’ve the capacity to arrest, every citizen has the right of arrest. You and I can arrest. You don’t even need to be Amotekun to arrest and hand over to conventional agency responsible for internal security.” Enter ‘Amotekun’, the Leopard IGP okays S/west security outfit, Amotekun South West govs allay fears, as Amotekun security outfit takes off