The Committee of Unions in Tertiary Institutions (CUTI), an amalgam of teachers in Kwara State colleges of education, has faulted the claim of former Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed that his administration did not owe any worker on the state’s payroll. Chairman of CUTI in the state Comrade Imam Abdulkadir said in a statement issued in Ilorin that the claim by the former governor was false because he left at least seven months of unpaid salaries amounting to N750 million across several colleges. The statement read: “The attention of Committee of Unions in Tertiary Institutions (CUTI) has been drawn to the claim by former Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed through his media aide that the immediate past administration was up-to-date in payment of state civil servants’ salary before he left office particularly the state-owned tertiary institutions. “The unions wish to reiterate that the claim by the former governor through his aide, Dr. Muhideen Akorede, was false and misleading. The state-owned tertiary institutions were owed seven months’ salaries to the tune of N750 million. Equally, the policy of the immediate-past administration to commercialise education in the state impacted negatively on both the staff and students of the institutions. “It would be recalled that failure of the immediate past administration to pay salaries of the state Colleges of Education and CAILS led to the industrial action embarked upon by the institutions three months to the expiration of Governor Ahmed’s administration,” the unions noted. In his reaction, former Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed, in a statement yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Abdulwahab Oba, said those engaged by the State Civil Service Commission were fully paid up to his exit from office. He, however, said “that owing to fluctuations in federal allocations and blockage of state government account by the EFCC, payment of subvention to revenue-generating MDAs such as tertiary institutions was in arrears.” Anger in Kwara over nonpayment of teachers Kwara workers begin strike over 10 months’ unpaid salaries Kwara workers lament nonpayment of arrears