A kidnap kingpin, Buju Bazamfare, alongside thirty-six of his armed gang-members, who have been terrorizing travellers and residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Nasarawa and Kogi states on Wednesday surrendered to the Police in Lafia, Nasarawa state capital. He was alleged to have terrorized Toto and Nasarawa Local Government Areas of the state and neighbouring Abaji and Kuje in Abuja as well as Lokoja and Bassa in Kogi state respectively. Daily Trust learnt that the Emir of Keffi, Dr Shehu Chindo Yamusa, was instrumental to the laying down of arms of Bazamfare and his gang-members. The repentant kingpin surrendered to the Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu and governors of the North Central region. Buju Bazamfare was alleged to have terrorized Toto and Nasarawa Local Governments of the state and neighbouring Abaji and Kuje in the Abuja and Lokoja and Bassa in Kogi state respectively. Emir of Keffi, Dr Shehu Chindo Yamusa was instrumental to the surrender of Buju Bazamfare to the authorities. Many people from the affected local government areas in Nasarawa state said kidnappings and armed banditry have reduced after Bazamfare met with the Nasarawa state governor, Abdullahi Sule and relevant stakeholders at the palace of Emir of Keffi recently. However, the Inspector General of Police, (IGP) Muhammed Adamu has re-emphasized that community policing is the best option to adopt towards achieving a lasting security in the country. He said this today in Lafia at the North Central security summit themed: “Strategic Partnership for Effective Community Policing in the North Central Zone/FCT.” According to him, “Almost in all the cases, experience of anarchy, lawlessness, agitations, terrorism, banditry, and kidnapping, among others occur at the community levels.” In his speech at the event, Governor Abdullahi Sule said, “When President Muhammadu Buhari was sworn-in, he has no doubt significantly degraded the activities of Boko Haram and sundry insurgents onslaught.” Reading the communiqué on behalf of the governors after the meeting, Governor Sule said: “the following strategic decisions were made after a comprehensive and exhaustive deliberation. “The state governors have accepted and adopted community policing strategy as an effective tool in bringing policing to the grassroots, traditional rulers and community leaders should assist the police in the selection process of community policing officers to be recruited within the community. “Each state within the zone to increase investment in social interventions programmes aimed at providing legitimate and alternative means of livelihood for the teeming youths especially the repentant criminals as well. “The state government to provide all necessary logistics to enable the return of IDPs to their various ancestral homes; the ministry of information of the various states in conjunction with traditional rulers and community leaders to liase with Police Public Relations Officers in creating public awareness and sensitizing programmes for the need for active engagement and participation in community policing initiative in their various areas. “The IG of Police to consider establishing additional squadron of mobile police/CTU  bases in trouble spots to complement distinct security architecture and bull safety security in selected states within the zone. “The North Central governors are enjoined to partner with Nigeria Police Force especially in the area of provision of lands, office accommodation, vehicles and other essentials.” Emir of Keffi’s mediation reduces kidnapping in Nasarawa State 30 arrested for killing Portuguese expatriate, two cops ‘Operation Whirl Stroke’ battles kidnapping, robbery in Nasarawa