Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has increased its metrological stations from 54 to 157, the Director-General, Prof. Sani Abubakar Mashi, has said. He stated this yesterday at a press briefing in Abuja on the 2020 seasonal rainfall prediction (SRP) event. The 2020 SRP will be made public today (Tuesday). Prof. Mashi said NiMet has made significant progress in improving weather forecasts in Nigerian through the establishment of more weather stations. According to him, due to paucity of funds, NiMet fell short of WMO standard in procuring weather stations across the country. “To stem this tide, we had to devise and implement a solution. We decided to partner with tertiary institutions in the country. This synergy, by way of a memorandum of understanding, birthed upgrades and in some instances, outright installation of new meteorological equipment,” he said. “Largely through interventions and many other international collaborations, we have witnessed an increase from 54 to over 157 meteorological stations, and this is still ongoing in all the nooks and crannies of the country,” he said. He noted that “though we are yet to attain the WMO standard of establishing one weather station per every 100 kilometres, significant progress has been made all the same.” Also, the socio-economic implications of the expected rainfall and temperature patterns for major sectors of the economy will be discussed during the event, he said. Prof. Mashi disclosed that Nigeria now has the first meteorological training institute in Africa and second in the world. The facility, owned by the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) and located in Katsina State, will commence academic programmes from September 22, 2020. “We have also established a new National Meteorological Training Institute in Katsina, where we shall be training Nigerians in Meteorology at OND and HND levels. NBTE has already granted provisional approval for commencement of the programme,” he said. The “first batch of students shall resume in September 2020,” he said, adding that the institute is not only the first in Africa, but the second in the world beside the South American Training Institute in Ecuador. NiMet targets 1,000 automated weather stations in one year – DG NiMet advises farmers to delay planting in 2019 NiMet’s 2019 SRP