A United States company, 328 Support Services GmbH and Quorum Aviation Ltd have signed an agreement to invest $2bn (about N730bn) in the Nigerian aviation industry in the next five years. Managing Director, Quorum Aviation, Mr. Abiola Lawal, at the signing ceremony in Lagos said the investment would enable the two organisations to invest in aviation infrastructure, training school and acquisition of new aircraft amongst others. The strategic partnership and cooperation was to drive investments and capacity building in the Nigerian aviation industry, she said. Under the partnership, 328 Support would supply aircraft for the Quorum’s Abuja-Kaduna air shuttle service project, which was in partnership with the Kaduna State Government. The partnership he said was announced in late 2019 with the Kaduna State Government. He said: “Strategic investment and cooperative investment are to drive investment and capacity into Nigeria aviation sector. That is why we are signing this officially. I thank Mr. Ray Moses for this. The vision behind this is driven by my own experience. I started my carrier in aviation in 1990 and I worked with Skyway Airlines with operations all over America, especially shuttle passenger operations. “The cooperation agreement is to operate new regional aircraft operation in Nigeria, between 328 and Quorum Aviation. Aviation Round Table (ART) has been a supporter of private partnership in aviation.  This environment can thrive with the right partnership and right investments. We are here today to formerly sign this agreement with a proven aircraft manufacturer, Dornier from Germany.” Director of Sales, 328 Support Services, Mr. Ray Moses, said the agreement would drive aviation growth in Nigeria, especially in the area of infrastructure and capacity building. He maintained that the company was also coming into Nigeria with latest brands of aircraft, Dornier aircraft in the industry. President of ART, Dr. Gabriel Olowo, who endorsed the partnership declared that only strategic partnerships could grow infrastructure in Nigeria, saying the future of aviation is strategic partnership. He said: “I don’t expect government to go and borrow into airports, airlines and others where strategic partners; private capital can drive.” No idling for Aviation minister page 24 AVIATION business Hopes, fears for Nigeria Air