The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) has trained over 1000 science teachers in secondary schools across the country as part of its Teachers Development Training programme. Executive Secretary of the board Engr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote stated this on Saturday at the closing ceremony of the 2nd phase of the training programme in Katsina State, attended by 270 teachers and organised with support from the state Ministry of Education. Represented by the Director, Planning Research and Statistics, NCDMB, Mr. Patrick Daziba Obah, the executive secretary promised that the board would increase the pace of continuous development of teachers across the country. He explained that the board sponsored the retraining programme to create new models in the quest for academic knowledge, adding that trainings given to teachers would enable their students to compete with their counterparts elsewhere in the world and position them in the knowledge of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). He expressed hope that the training of teachers would translate to better performances by their students in WAEC, NECO, JAMB and other national and international examinations and lead to better technical skills and craftsmanship. He also charged the teachers to ensure that Katsina State emerges as number one state in STEM education and the students among the leaders in the quest for technological and industrial self-reliance.  The General Manager, Capacity Building Division, NCDMB, Dr. Ama Ikiru, explained that the board organized a phase 2 of the programme in Katsina because the state government was receptive of the initiative and collaborated effectively with the board. The Commissioner for Education, Katsina State, Dr. Badamasi Lawal, commended NCDMB for sponsoring the retraining of teachers in the state, noting that “it is remarkable that an agency that is based in Bayelsa State will come all the way to train teachers in Katsina.” Bayelsa trains 250 teachers on proficiency How IDPs, others tap from Nigerian content pool Bauchi trains teachers, education managers on cluster schools teaching