The year 2019 ended with tales of unfulfilled dreams and lamentations for dashed hopes from citizens across the country. And as the year 2020 sets in, Nigerians have set goals for governments at all levels which they hope will help them achieve their personal and collective aspirations. Ebo Darlington, a security guard in Abuja, urged governments to look into the plight of Nigerians and alleviate them. Another resident, Maureen Nwaede, a furniture maker, wants public transportation infrastructure improved upon, just as she expectrf governments to provide quality and affordable education for all. Sanusi Olaitan Mohammed, a business man and a poultry farmer, wanted governments to give grants to SMEs, to help boost their businesses. A graduate of the University of Abuja, Abdullahi Aisha Tanko, urged the Nigerian government to provide job opportunities for the youth and to eradicate the high rate of poverty in the country. Jibril Ibrahim, an Abuja resident, wantrf the government to provide quality education, healthcare and transport infrastructure to citizens in 2020. In Lagos, some residents who spoke with Daily Trust tasked Nigerian leaders to focus more on providing the required infrastructure. Israel Abutu, a businessman who lives at Ilasa in Mushin said: “I want to pray that God will touch the hearts of our leaders to do the right thing and govern the nation well.” Mrs. Augustina Samuel, an investment banker and a resident of Mushin, urged the government to focus on health and education. “Go to our hospitals, you see people wallowing in pain, people are there unattended to and it is so heartless to know that we have leaders who cannot go to that hospital and they fly abroad to treat just headache. “Also, we need to address the near dilapidation in our public schools,” he said. Some residents of Gombe metropolis called on government to consider the less privileged and embark on projects that will touch their lives directly. A fruit seller, Zubairu Abubakar, said he expected things to change for good in the New Year. “Our expectations are that in 2020, things will change for good and the politicians will fulfill the promises they made during campaigns,” he said. Abubakar also called on governments both at the federal and the state levels to consider the less privileged people by formulating policies that will mainstream and take care of their needs. Muhammad Mustapha, a sugarcane seller, called on governments to consider establishing more industries to provide jobs, especially to unskilled people and the less privileged. “We need qualitative schools, well-functioning hospitals, clean and safe drinking water and above all, more job opportunities for the teeming youths and unskilled people like me,” Mustapha said. Residents of Calabar, Cross River State, asked the governments at the state and the federal levels to provide security and infrastructure to improve the lives of the citizens. Okon Umo of Jebs community in Calabar South LGA said he expected the government to improve on the economy so that there would be food security for all Nigerians. A clergy woman, Deaconess Arit Johnson Brown of the Consecrated Believers Assembly, called on the federal government to listen to the cries and yearnings of the people and open the national borders but should strengthen the security agencies to stop contrabands. A youth leader in Yakurr LGA, Eteng Obi, said the country has all it takes to make Nigerians comfortable; asking the authorities to the fight against corruption seriously. In Kaduna, a resident, Isiaka Bello, who produces sachet water, urged governments to bring more security personnel to stop kidnappings. For AddulRahman Yusuf, a tailor in Kaduna, asked governments to take provision of good roads and improvement living conditions serious. In Edo State, a resident of Benin, John Igbinovia, urged governments to fix electricity for businesses to thrive. Another resident Osasu Moses, urged the federal government to fix the roads across the country to reduce the hardship faced by the citizenry. 2018 beginning of Nigeria''s revival - Atiku Confab: Abuja natives welcome delegates’ recommendations on FCT Page 36