A non-governmental organisation, Civil Society for Human Rights and Rehabilitation has called on the Chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Abdullahi Adamu Candido, to give account of his stewardship to residents who voted him into office. The group which had previously called for Candido to be investigated over alleged financial infractions by the anti-graft agencies, alledged that huge amount of money has accrued to the council under the watch of the chairman but he has failed to account for them.  Speaking to journalists in Abuja yesterday, spokesman of the group, Yunusa Yusuf, said the chairman’s alleged corruption has robbed the people of infrastructure and human capital development. He said civil societies were concerned about how the peoples’ money is spent, “which is the motivation to petition Candido to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and The Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC)”. The group had led a protest to the council secretariat last week Wednesday during which a petition signed by Comrade Joseph Jonah, was submitted to the speaker of the council’s legislature.  Meanwhile, ‘AMAC Marshal, a security outfit floated by the chairman on assumption of office in 2016, said it stands with Candido. The marshal general of the security outfit, Kassim Isyaku Chicha, while addressing journalists yesterday in Apo said recent protests against AMAC chairman do not represent the opinion of the indigenous people in AMAC. He said the protests against the chairman were sponsored agenda to weaken the performances of the council chairman. “The issue would have been addressed in a more peaceful and civilised manner wherein everybody will key in to help, to get things done peacefully,” he said.  He said the chairman had affected several lives through the security outfit as unemployed people are now functional members of the society. IGR: Group wants AMAC chair investigated Candido inaugurates board of directors of AMAC microfinance bank Easter: Candido urges Christians to imbibe teachings of Jesus Christ