Dr Bola Onigbogi, is the President, Nigerian Council for Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB), the second female president in 57 years. She’s president to over 500 registered members. She spoke to our correspondent on why you should buy an insurance policy through brokers, the poor penetration of insurance in Nigeria and what can be done to deepen insurance penetration, among other industry issues. Excerpts: What are you doing to ensure that more Nigerians embrace insurance so that it can contribute more to GDP? Image building is one of my major projects. I want Nigerians to embrace insurance. Insurance is the only business that exists for other businesses to thrive. So we are taking it to that state where Nigerians will appreciate the value of insurance. We are trying as much as possible to educate the public about the benefits of insurance. Insurance is last on the priority list of Nigerians because they believe insurance doesn’t perform. But I want to assure Nigerians that that was before, it doesn’t happen now. That was basically due to the failure of operators then to settle claims as at when due. But currently we have the whistle blowing policy. There is no more default in the insurance industry because information is available to the insuring public and they know what to do in the case of failure of any insurance company to pay claims. Beyond low awareness, what other reasons do you think make Nigerians unwilling to insure? One is ignorance. Nigerians are not aware that insurance is important to the survival of their businesses. If I may say this, do you know that the third-party motor insurance has benefits? But a lot of Nigerians don’t know. They just believe that they are taking the third-party insurance in case police ask them. We call it third party insurance because it protects damage to the third-party vehicle and not the insured vehicle. I still see people exchanging blows on the street even when both vehicles involved in the accident possess third party insurance. But the only thing they need to do is call the insurance company in an accident situation. The insurance company will pay. Sometimes I do stop to educate motorists when I see them fighting because of an accident. Most times they are not aware they can make claims. Religious belief is another reason why some  Nigerians don’t take insurance. You will hear ‘”it’s not my portion.” So whose portion is it? Accidents can happen anytime. No one prays for it. But insurance should be the shoulder you rest on when it happens. So you have a peace of mind. For example, look at our markets all over Nigeria. In the last one week, I have heard about not less than three serious infernos in our markets. Ask them if they have insurance. The answer is no. Now they will be shouting to states and federal governments to help them. Whereas if they have insurance the insurance companies will step in and perform. What we in the insurance broking sector is emphasising now is that if you want to take an insurance contact a registered insurance broker. So that when there is any problem, you just call your broker and your broker will take it up from there and get your claims. My client had called me from Kano on a weekend when his truck had an accident but I took action immediately. That is insurance. So we need to change the wrong perception. How did the VIO become vendors of third-party motor insurance and how can we stop him from selling insurance policy? We are working on that. It’s not the business of VIO to sell insurance policy. Why they are doing that I probably think is that they wanted to help the motorist to have at least third-party motor insurance. But in an ideal situation, it should be left to the insurance industry. There are allegations that there are still fake insurance companies out there, is that true? I don’t believe that exists again. Probably that was in the past. Right now, we have the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), they have their website and the individual insurance companies have their website. With technology it’s easier to detect. Before you patronize any insurance company, just Google it and check if it’s registered. You can also check the NAICOM website too. So if you decide to patronize non existing insurance company, then you are on your own. But I can assure Nigerians that there are no fraudulent insurance companies in Nigeria again because the industry is well regulated by NAICOM. There is no hidden place for non registered insurance company to operate in Nigeria. Moreso, what we are emphasising now is that if you want to take up insurance, call a broker. Your broker won’t take you to a fake insurer. Could you explain who is an insurance broker and the value he adds to insurance value chain? An insurance broker is that intermediary between the insured and the insurance company. The services of a broker are at no extra cost to the insured. The insurance companies pay us commission on the businesses we give them. So for the client it’s a win-win situation. Your broker will select the best service and policy suitable for your business. Your broker will still shop around for the insurance company that specializes in your own type of risks. And again, based on your advice, after assessing your risks, your broker will advise you properly on what you need to do to reduce your premium. For instance, if you take a fire policy and special risks, may be for a building, your broker will advise you that fire extinguisher must be installed in strategic areas within the building. Do you know that there is a fire extinguisher discount if you install the fire extinguisher? That will reduce your premium. Also when claims arise, the insured has no stress at all. Just call your broker. Your broker  will worry about the claims while you go about your business. Your broker must get your genuine claims settled.  You cannot imagine an enlightened person  putting a brand-new expensive car on the road with this VIO insurance. It is senseless. When they have an accident, they will spend their money to repair it. But with comprehensive insurance they will get their vehicles fixed. All they would need do is call their broker and the broker will follow through. There are compulsory insurance policies beyond the third party that are not being enforced. What would you do in this regard? During my tenure, I will be working on this to make sure compulsory insurances are compulsory in Nigeria. I will work hand in hand with the National Assembly. The law is already there but we are talking of implementation and enforcement. Strict sanctions must apply. Without sanction it won’t work. When you look at insurance in Nigeria and insurance in other climes, the gap is so wide. In other climes insurance companies own banks but here insurance penetration in Nigeria is 0.3 percent. This is very ridiculous. We must make a change from that position. We can only do that by awareness, which is what I want to concentrate on. We must let the public know the benefits of insurance and how they can leverage on insurance to improve their lives. However, government must lead the way by making sure all its properties are insured. Government should also ensure the compulsory insurance policies are enforced. There are still complaints of rate cutting and other malfeasance in the insurance industry, how can this be tackled? This is still happening because insurance is sold in Nigeria not bought. In other climes  insurance is bought. People look out for insurance companies to buy insurance. If we achieve that all the malfeasance will end. What is the capacity of local insurance companies in underwriting aviation, oil and gas risks? If not for the local content policy of government, we would have lost out on all these but with the local content law, Nigerian companies must have a share. This is helping our industry to grow. The Dana Air crash, for instance, local insurance companies paid their own share of the claims. So local insurance companies  are doing well in aviation, oil and gas sectors. But there is always room for improvement. Don’t take insurance without a broker – NCRIB president Market fire: Take insurance now, expert tells traders Banking crisis puts insurance in dire straits