Many depositors were said to have been plunged into serious financial quandary due to the closure of Kano based Dantata Success and Profit Company by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) . The investment company was said to have been shut down for carrying out investment operations without registration with SEC. It was gathered that some of the depositors invested millions of Naira into the business while many put in hundreds of thousands of Naira. According to the leader of a group of depositors that have invested in the Company, Malam Nazeer Muhammad, they have been expecting SEC to commence refund of their money, after successfully conducting verification of the depositors. “Some of the depositors have died; some are in hospital while many are now in the correctional centres across the nation because the money they have deposited in the company wasn’t theirs. By February, it will be one year and yet we have received nothing. What scares us the most is the news that some of the confiscated properties of the company are missing,” he said. He added that the depositors had already formed a union by the name Mafita, to seek for authority’s intervention into the matter. “Over 300, 000 affected depositors have formed a union to enable an effective advocacy to authorities concern to as a matter of saving lives wade into the situation and ensure payment to the investors,” he said. When contacted, zonal coordinator SEC, Malam Danladi Mohammed stated that the commission had committed a lot of financial resources in safeguarding the Company’s properties under its custody. He added that no report of missing property has come to his office, adding that the commission pays N300, 000 monthly as salaries to people manning those properties. Dantata Success and Profitable Company was said to have been an initiative of Hajiya Basira Dantata, who started it as a family business where interested investors within her family invested their shares in the company for business purposes. Customers in limbo after shut down of ‘illegal’ capital market Failed bank tribunals: Abacha was right NDIC declares all deposit money banks sound