An early morning fire has razed six buildings at the popular Balogun market, Lagos Island, yesterday destroying goods said to be worth over N50 million. Daily Trust learnt that the fire started from a four-storey building beside the Great Nigeria Insurance Limited building on Martins Street and spread to neighbouring buildings. Plazas the fire destroyed included Alloy Plaza and Anambra Plaza on the Martins Street-end of the market. The fire was still raging by 3.30pm when our correspondents left the market. Some of the traders who lost property in the inferno were seen crying and calling for support from the state government. One of the victims, Emeka Nwangbonike, said the fire consumed goods worth over N50 million in two of his shops and a store. Nwangbonike said a fellow trader alerted him at around 7am about the fire outbreak and he ran to the scene to salvage some of his goods but he could not. Hoodlums had a field day carting away goods amid the confusion. Policemen from the Lion Building police station and the Area ‘A’ Command battled to keep the hoodlums at bay, while officials of the Lagos State Fire Service tried to put out the fire. A police officer said some arrests were made and some goods recovered from hoodlums. He added that some of the boys arrested had been taken to the Ebute-Ero police station, while others were taken to the Lion Building station. Our correspondent observed at the scene that one of the affected buildings had collapsed. The Director-General, Lagos Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, disclosed that the inferno was caused by poor storage of fuel in the building where the fire started. “On arrival at the scene, it was discovered that a four-storey plaza had been gutted by fire, which escalated to six other buildings. “All responders are on ground and progress is being made. We urge for calm and will provide further update,” he added. Many market fires spread pain, penury Goods worth millions of naira destroyed as fire razes Balogun market At Balogun market, it’s lamentation, cry for help