Mr. Biramobofa Kiribien is a retired Assistant Superintendent of Police. In this interview with Daily Trust, Kiribien said he was paid a gratuity of N1.3 million after serving Nigeria for 35 years and placed on a monthly pension of N31,000. The ex-crime buster said he spent N1.3 million unsuccessfully, trying to get his full retirement benefits. What is your background and how long did you serve Nigeria before you retired? I am from Bayelsa State. I enlisted into the Nigeria Police Force on 1st December 1981 as a recruit Constable. I did the job and retired on 1st December, 2016. I served meritoriously for 35 years and retired. How was the process of accessing your retirement benefits? When I was about to retire, they asked me to give them a notice of six months which I did before the retirement date arrived. I was expecting my retirement benefits within two weeks or one month after retirement, but the benefit did not come until after one year. After serving for 35 years, I waited for one year without salary. I was not a corrupt officer. I served this nation sincerely for 35 years and retired, but they left me for one year without pay, until December, 2017. What was the retirement benefit like when you went and claimed it? When we were asked to go and sign the consent form so that the benefit would be paid into our accounts, I saw that my gratuity was N1.3 million out of the over N5.2 million paid into my retirement savings account. What was I supposed to do with N1.3 million? I asked my Pension Fund Administrator why the lump sum should be that small. My mates were remitted over N7 million but I retired as ASP 1, yet they gave me just about N5.2 million and placed me on monthly pension of N31,000. I went and complained to them, they added N58, 000 to the total money in my retirement account and increased my monthly pension to N32,000. It was too small. I told them the pension was still not complete. I was not an inspector. I retired as ASP 1. I asked them to give me the N5.2 million remitted in my account but they said I could only get the lump sum. They said the pension law says if they give me the whole pension at once, I cannot stay alive. Nobody told me before retirement that when I retire, they would hold my money and invest for me. They said the pension law does not work with my length of service and rank at retirement. How ready were you for retirement? As I am here now, I’ve not built a house. I was hoping I would use my gratuity to build a house. How will I do that now? I served the government and retired after 35 years, government is supposed to appreciate us apart from the benefits. I am now having high blood pressure. My children got admission but I can’t pay the fees. What action did you take to ensure they remitted your exact retirement benefits? I went to the National Pension Commission to complain. They understood with me that what was in the form was not the accurate amount they are supposed to pay ASP 1. They asked me to go to NPF Pension to take another form for them to compute the accurate amount for me. But, NPF Pension refused to listen to me. I went back to the National Pension Commission but they said they would not be able to do anything and that I should still go back to my PFA. I begged them to send a staff to my PFA and instruct them to do the right thing but they refused to. The NPF now said I should sign for the benefit of ASP 2, when actually I retired as ASP 1. I petitioned the National Pension Commission that I was being forced to take benefits below my due before I eventually signed the consent form. Then I took a lawyer to help me out. The lawyer wrote to my PFA and they responded that my total remittance has been increased by N500, 000 and that I should apply for additional lump sum. I became suspicious that my benefit was more since I retired as a senior police office. I decided to go to court to challenge why my pension benefit was under-remitted and why they waited till I used a lawyer before they remitted more. They saw lawyer letterhead before they responded to me. What do you want now? The magistrate dismissed my case, and now I am crying to the public and anti-corruption crusaders to help fight my case. I spent N1.5 million on the case, more than the lump sum approved for me. My greatest regret today, by retired Immigration Assistant Comptroller General Gwandu Kaduna pensioners among  least paid in Nigeria – Ankyang How pensioners spend retirement benefits