The husband and father of Mrs Ammada Anyinu and Bmazhiyi Anyinu, who were abducted by kidnappers seven days ago, has said he has not spoken with both of them ever since. Mr Shekwolo Anyinu, who spoke with our reporter yesterday, said his wife and daughter’s  abductors have not made contact with him or any other member of his family. City News had reported that the man’s wife and her daughter, a 400 level undergraduate student of Microbiology at the Federal University of Technology (FUT) Minna, Niger State, were abducted in Nuku village in Abaji Area Council of the FCT last Friday night. Anyinu, who was shot by the kidnappers on his right hand, said he was worried that neither his wife’s phone nor that of his daughter was connecting since their abduction. “My major worry is that my wife is an asthma patient and I don’t know what may be her condition now, while my daughter who is expected to resume school is also being held captive by the kidnappers. The silence from their abductors is unnerving,” he said. He also expressed worry that the kidnappers have repeatedly targeted him and his family, haven abducted him in July last year. “In fact, it was on July 10, 2019 that the kidnappers attacked my house and abducted me and my family had to go and source for N1.4 million to pay ransom before I was set free,” he said. He added that they invaded his house last week and riddled the entire building with bullets which hit him on the arm. Mr. Shekwolo, therefore appealed to the kidnappers to sympathize with the health condition of his wife and set her and his daughter free, while also calling on security agents to expedite efforts in ensuring that his family members are set free. When contacted, the spokesman of the FCT police command, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said the command was making efforts to ensure that the victims are rescued alive. “But the main issue is that we can’t reveal the strategies we are adopting because it will jeopardize the police efforts,” he said. Gunmen kidnap student, mother in Abaji Gunmen kidnap woman, daughter in Abuja months after husband is freed Kidnapped Abaji LEA scribe’s wife, trader released after N3.4m ransom