A political activist, Comrade Timi Frank, has replied the Abia State governor, Okezie Victor Ikpeazu, describing the governor as more of the opposition All Progressives Congress than Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Frank said Ikpeazu was among the PDP governors that gave President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC 25 per cent vote in return for 2nd term. The governor had, on Sunday, issued a statement attacking the former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, over his earlier statement that most PDP governors were not committed to the opposition politics in Nigeria. But responding to Ikeazu through another statement on Monday, Frank said rather than apologise for the misadventure, “the Abia state governor’s shallow defence as to why he chose to jet out with the President at the expense of his party’s National Executive Council (NEC) meeting buttressed the belief in some quarters that he is indeed an All Progressives Congress (APC) mole even as a PDP governor. “The popular saying that an old woman is always uneasy at the mention of dry bones manifested itself in the reply of the incompetent Governor of Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu to my statement. I criticized him for hopping off to London with President Muhammadu Buhari in the midst of a serious national and political onslaught against the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Imo State. “Playing the ostrich, Ikpeazu pinned his trip with the President to the UK-Africa Investment Summit on the quest to market his proposed Enyimba Economic City Project to foreign investors. “Does a man go on a jamboree when his house is on fire? That is the question that Ikpeazu should answer rather than play acting in his protests that represent his guilty conscience.” The Bayelsa born activist also cleared the air over the allegation made by the governor that he (Framk) was used and dumped by the APC, saying: “Let it be known to the Governor that I resigned from the All Progressives Congress and refused to hero-worship President Buhari when the APC derailed and began to pursue anti-people agenda rather than what they promised Nigerians. “For the records, I stood my grounds while in the APC and I resigned my position as a principled person and not because of any political gain. “That Ikpeazu calls himself a national leader of the PDP is self delusional dream. Within the party, he is known for what he is, an unreliable person who would rather jamboree while there is fire at his doorstep. In case he does not know, Ikpeazu is as relevant to the PDP as the ‘P’ in psychology.” “The Abia governor capitulated when he posited in his reply that, ‘Much as Governor Ikpeazu is not responsible for Timi’s unguarded spleen, no leader would prefer to attend a party meeting to attending a Summit where his ideas and programs for his people will be beamed at the global stage.’ “If for the sake of argument we yield to this convoluted reasoning of his, is he also saying that that the PDP’s NEC was not worth the attention of his deputy? Clearly he was sending a clear message of disdain to the party to impress his pay masters. “The simple answer to this eye popping revelation is the liability Ikpeazu is to the PDP and the reason he is all cheeks in smile with the President and perhaps while he will continue to be a sacred cow at the Supreme Court.” PDP governors lobbying to travel with Buhari, Timi Frank alleges Abia 2019: Gov Ikpeazu sure of winning - Nkire Why Ciroma, Fayose shunned PDP confab