The Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGSEC) said it has arraigned 36 persons before the state mobile court in Oshodi for failing to use pedestrian bridges in the state. The LAGSEC Corps Marshal, retired Commissioner of Police, Gbemisola Akinpelu, disclosed this yesterday during her monthly interface session with the agency’s senior officers at its Command Headquarters, Bolade-Oshodi. The 36 offenders, whose names were not mentioned, were said to have been arrested in various parts of the state. Mrs Akinpelu said the arrest and subsequent arraignment of the accused persons was part of the agency’s efforts at ensuring free flow of vehicular movement in the state, adding that operatives of the agency stepped up their monitoring on noticing that the actions of the pedestrians were hindering free flow of traffic. She expressed the agency’s commitment towards attaining total compliance on road crossing and use of pedestrian bridges in line with the mandate of the governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on the enforcement and prosecution of offenders. The Corps Marshal emphasised the risks associated with crossing highways where pedestrian bridges were constructed, warning that such crossing impedes free flow of traffic and cause unnecessary loss of lives. She put the distance from any pedestrian bridge where LAGESC officers can arrest erring pedestrians crossing the highway at 200 metres. The agency has lately been enforcing the law against erring persons defaulting in the use of the pedestrian bridge in areas like Ikeja Along, Ikorodu Road, Ojota, Berger and CMS. Mrs Akinpelu explained that the Commissioner for Environment & Water Resources, Mr Tunji Bello, has approved the establishment of additional divisional offices in the state towards ensuring adequate coverage of the state. She said that Divisional Officers would be strategically positioned towards achieving zero tolerance of all environmental and traffic offences in the state. Reiterating the need for increased, proper and adequate monitoring of pedestrian bridges, the Corps Marshal also pointed out the need to dislodge traders around the bridges and walkways for free human movement.  No casualty recorded in collapsed pedestrian bridge in Lagos - LASEMA How Oshodi interchange is redefining Lagos skyline Faces behind the crashes (I)