The Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI), has appointed Ms. Victoria Akai as the new Director General of the organisation. The Chamber said until her elevation, Ms. Victoria Akai was the Director of the Business Entrepreneurial Skills and Technology (BEST) centre of the Chamber. Announcing the appointment during Management and Staff meeting, the President of the Chamber, Prince Adetokunbo Kayode, said the appointment is part of efforts to reorganise the chamber and make it more strategic in the task of developing the economy. Prince Kayode said Ms. Victoria has resumed at her new position. “In the life of an organisation such as ours, there is room for continuity and even change of baton at one point in time or the other. The former DG, Chief Tonia Shoyele has played her part but needs to step aside for the incumbent. I wish her all the best in her future endeavours. “I want to emphasise that Ms Victoria is coming with an impressive experience in effectively and efficiently managing resources and personnel that creates impactful results,” he said. Ms Victoria Akai joined the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry as a Director of the Business Entrepreneurship Skills and Technology Centre in 2017. Between 2002 and 2011 she worked with the European Union PRIME & SRIK Projects as a Procurement Manager and Administrator overseeing 23 States and the FCT. Between 2010 and 2017, she established a management company that successfully implemented various projects and programs for national and international organisations including the EU, UN, Johns Hopkins University, National Primary Health Care Development Agency amongst various others. Victoria has served as a lead Consultant to Nigeria’s Senate Committee on Primary Health Care and Communicable Diseases. She is a Management Expert, with Degrees and Professional Trainings which include an MBA in Management, MDF Certification in European Development Administration and Finance Procedures, B.Sc. in Agriculture with specialization in Agric Economics and Rural Sociology, United Nations Institute of Training and Research Certificates in Debt & amp; Financial Management and Negotiation of Financial transaction, MIT Certificates in Leadership and Entrepreneurship. Aside from the DG, other Management team members are: Mr. Olawale Abdulrasheed- Policy Advocacy Centre (PAC) Coordinator; Ms. Aisha Ado Abdullahi-Director, Dispute Resolution Centre (DRC); Mr. Olulorunmaiye Olawale Jonathan-Senior Manager, Trade Facilitation; Mr. Jude Chime-Executive Director, Abuja Trade Centre (ATC); Mrs. Tinuke Temitope-BEST Head of Program and Mr. Adakola Nurudeen Olanrewaju-Accountant. LCCI elects Mabogunje as new President Fraud allegations rock Abuja Chamber of Commerce Fraud allegations rock Abuja Chamber of Commerce