The transportation sector in 2020 is undoubtedly going to record a boom as the nation looks forward to the completion of several railway projects and commencement of new ones by the federal government. The most promising is the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge project which is nearing completion with a test-run already ongoing. Over the years, the Nigerian railway system, a strategic component of any nation’s transportation sector,  had remained moribund. The former administration of President Goodluck Jonathan however revived the old narrow gauge from Lagos to Kano as well as the Lagos-Ogun mass transit which conveys millions of passengers on a yearly basis. But the construction of the Abuja-Kaduna standard gauge train was a turning point in the railway modernization drive. Though then Jonathan government initiated the project, it was inherited by the Muhammadu Buhari administration and commissioned in 2016. It was the first modern fast rail train in Nigeria. It started on a low key with few passenger turnout but today it is over patronised and people hardly get on the train unless they arrive the train station hours before departure. Government has also responded by deploying more coaches. More than 20 coaches are currently deployed for the service at the moment while more coaches are expected to be deployed between January and February. All over the world, rail service has been taken for granted. For instance countries in Asia and other parts of Europe are gradually transiting from standard gauge to bullet train. This is a result of years of massive investment and sustained research on railway operations. But the development of railway was stagnant in Nigeria for decades until recently. However, Managing Director of Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC) Engr. Fidet Okhiria said it is better late than never. “What is important is that we have started and the generation coming after us will continue to build on this. It is no longer the case of buying coaches every 10, 10 years; it is going to be continuous.” he said. In April 2017, Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who was then acting president, performed the groundbreaking of the 157km Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge train which is expected to extend to the nation’s premier ports in Apapa. Minister of Transportation Mr. Rotimi Amaechi has since the commencement of work committed to timely delivery of the project through his sustained monthly inspection which has put the contractor on its toes. The China Civil Engineering and Construction Corporation (CCECC) has also been up and doing to deliver the project on schedule. The aggressive construction work has culminated in the ongoing test-run being conducted from Iju in Lagos to Ibadan, the final destination of the project. The contractor has successfully laid the tracks up to the end of the project while focus has been shifted to the Lagos and Apapa ends. There has been excitement among Nigerians as the federal government declared free service for the next four months while construction works, especially on the train stations, continue. In 2019, the federal government resuscitated the Itakpe-Warri train which is also being put to use. Observers believe the ongoing railway modernisation would revolutionise the transportation architecture in Nigeria through the promotion of inter-modal transportation system which effectively combines all modes of transportation and particularly eases pressure on Nigerian roads. Amidst the ongoing modernisation, there is the need however for a transportation masterplan which experts say has been missing for years. This will provide the direction for operators in the system. A transportation analyst and former spokesman of the NRC, Prince Abdulraouf Akinwoye, believes Nigerians should expect “economic boom” with the commitment of the federal government to drive railway modernisation. He said: “With the planned completion of the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge, Nigeria will witness economic boom. Aside from massive movement of passengers, there would be movement of petroleum products and this would reduce the influx of articulated trucks. Our life expectancy will improve and there would be no fear of traffic. “If the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge train is completed and finally opened, Lagos will be decongested.  The decongestion I am talking about is not that people would cease to work in Lagos, they can relocate to Ibadan and come to work in Lagos by train. “The traffic chaos will no longer be there. People will live with little stress. You can imagine spending 4, 5 hours from Lagos to Ibadan. Life will change for the better; it will affect every aspect of our lives positively. Also the prices of foodstuff will reduce because the transportation cost would also come down.” With sustained commitment to railway modernization,  it is expected that the year 2020 is a year of transportation revolution. Nigerians Await The Rail Lines To Transform Their Economy Who’ll Move  Abuja-Kaduna Electric Railway Project from Dreamland to Reality? Osinbajo arrives Ogun for ground breaking of Wagon Assembly Plant