A 22-year-old undergraduate of the Lagos State Polytechnic, has alleged that she was raped by one Andrew in a hotel located on Allen Avenue, Lagos. Speaking at the Area F Command, Ikeja, the victim said she met Aderemi at the Ikeja City Mall last Sunday when she went to shop. “It was a security man at the mall who gave me a call card that a man, whom he said had expressed a likeness for my shape and dressing, said he should give it to me and that I should call him. That day, I didn’t really see him; I only saw his back when he was leaving the mall. “The following day, I called him and he asked that we should meet and hang out. He asked me to pick an Uber or Taxify to meet him somewhere at Opebi, which I did and the fare was N2000 and he paid. I joined him in his car and he drove me to a local joint along PWD. “He then drove me to a relaxation joint on Joel Ogunaike and introduced me to some of his friends. About 9pm, I told him I wanted to go home, which he consented to and he called an Uber for me. But I later cancelled it and decided to accompany him to his hotel on Allen Avenue so he could pick his luggage. The arrangement was that I would remain in the car while he hurries up to pick his belongings. “But all that changed when we got to the hotel. He pleaded with me to give him a helping hand with his luggage; that was how we entered the hotel room. I was surprised when we got to the hotel room, he pulled off his clothes, fell into the bed and asked me to join him. It was shocking. He requested for a bottle of beer and started drinking and smoking, asking if I needed to drink. I said no. I was angry and made for the door. “But he sprang up and dragged me to the bed, flipped up my skirt and forced himself inside me as he pressed hard on my neck. I wasn’t wearing any undies except this skirt because wearing undies gives me rashes. But when I discovered that he was calm, I pushed him up and started banging the door, which attracted the hotel management. I called my uncle, a Major, who lives abroad, and he contacted senior army personnel, who then sent in some soldiers to the hotel and the rapist was apprehended and handed over to policemen from Area “F”,” she narrated. But the suspect denied the allegation, stressing that all that transpired in the hotel room between him and the complainant was based on mutual agreement. A source close to the Area ‘F’ Command Headquarters, which is investigating the incident, said the suspect would be soon charged to court. Efforts by our correspondent to get the comments of the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, on the matter were unsuccessful as he  did not pick calls to his line.  ‘Why I married 7 times in 15 years’ Robber stole cars in Lagos, lynched in Edo How robber raped me using ‘polybag’ as protection, teacher tells court