The MTN Group will invest fresh $1.6billion from its operations to strengthen its network and systems across Nigeria. The Chairman, MTN Group, Mr Mcebisi Jonas disclosed this yesterday when he visited President Muhammadu Buhari at State House, Abuja. “We are fully aligned with the strategic agenda of government, and are committed to strengthening the digital economy of the country,” Mr Jonas said. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed the commitment of the Federal Government to providing an enabling environment for businesses to succeed. President Buhari, who spoke yesterday while receiving Mr Jonas, at the State House, Abuja, said partnerships between the public and private sectors remained the most viable means of bringing prosperity to the masses. “I am pleased to hear of the progress you are making in Nigeria, especially in supporting our digital inclusion programs. Your proposed projects, such as the rural telephony project, will surely complement our economic diversification and financial inclusion programs by connecting the producers based in rural areas to consumers located in our major towns and cities,” the President said in a statement issued by his spokesman, Femi Adesina. He said government was looking at ways to increase the level of security across critical national infrastructure, noting that it would guarantee seamless service delivery and also facilitate investments across the country. President Buhari said Nigeria is Africa’s largest telecommunications market, and MTN’s largest market. “Our hope is for operators like MTN to continue to focus on delivering quality service at reasonable prices. If we put our minds together, such win-win positions are achievable,” he added. The MTN Group Chairman said he was visiting along with top executives of the telecoms company to show appreciation to President Buhari, “because most of the issues we raised during your visit to South Africa have been addressed, and there is progress on the remaining ones.” page 24 news More reactions trail attacks on Nigerians in South Africa Nigeria emerges first in W/Africa to launch 5G trial