• My mandate stolen — Jibrin  A former majority leader of the House of Representatives, Hon Alhassan Ado Doguwa, has reclaimed his seat for Doguwa/Tudun Wada Federal constituency in Saturday’s rerun. However, the former chairman, House Committee on Appropriation, Hon Abdulmumin Jibrin, lost his bid to return to the green chamber. Announcing the result, the Returning Officer of Doguwa/Tudun Wada, Professor Mansur Auwal Bindawa said Duguwa of the All Progressives Congress (APC) scored 66,667 votes, while Air Commodore Yusha’u Salisu (rtd) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) got 6,323 votes. It could be recalled that the Kaduna Division of the Appeal Court nullified Doguwa’s election in November, 2019 and ordered for fresh election in the constituency. For Kiru/Bebeji Federal Constituency, PDP’s candidate, Alhaji Ali Datti Yako, was declared winner of the poll. He defeated Jibrin of the APC. The returning officer in-charge of Kiru/Bebeji federal constituency, Professor Abdullahi Arabi, declared Yako as winner having scored 48,601 votes against Jibrin’s 13,507. Similarly, APC has swept Minjibir, Bunkure, Madobi and Rogo local governments in the just concluded re-run election for the State House of Assembly. Consequently, Munir Babba Dan’Agundi of the APC has regained his seat with 32,114 votes defeating his running mate of the PDP, Umar Balla, who got 31,258 votes. In Madobi local government’s re-run election into the Kano State House of Assembly, APC scored 25,403 to beat PDP which got 23,625, while in Minjibir APC polled 18,455 to defeat PDP’s 17,607 votes. In Rogo local government, APC scored 26,730 to beat PDP that got 26, 362 and in Bunkure, local government, APC clinched the seat with 20,566 votes against the opposition PDP which scored 19,941. My mandate stolen – Jibrin Reacting, Jibrin claimed that his mandate was stolen and his constituents were disenfranchised. “I know, I won the election fairly and squarely but my mandate was stolen. In many units, elections never took place. The ballot boxes were diverted but scores were miraculously entered. The violence, thuggery and rigging that took place have been carefully documented, at least for posterity,” he said. Kano rerun poll: APC's Abdulmumin Jibrin loses to PDP's Ali Datti Kano rerun polls: Doguwa reclaims seat Jibrin, Doguwa: The travails of House of Reps political giants