Coherent regulatory framework has the potential to create enabling business environment in which Small and Medium Enterprise (SMEs) will flourish, Professor of Economics, Akpan Ekpo, has said. Ekpo made the argument in a paper titled small and medium scale enterprises and Nigeria’s road to prosperity. He identified the adoption of favourable taxation system, reduction in transaction costs, transparency in execution of business policies, removal of bureaucracies in business policy implementation as the immediate areas that requires government interventions. Prof. Ekpo said: “These are largely lacking in the Nigerian business environment, thus suffocating the operations and potentials of SMEs in the country, as well as their contribution to economic growth and development. “ He further noted that with the absence of basic infrastructural facilities such as stable power (electricity), good roads, functional seaports, ICT connectivity, and others, the private sector in which SMEs operate is faced with high costs of business operation. “In Nigeria, SMEs has to grapple with the challenge of power in their operations, owing to the fact that Nigeria is generally a generator-driven economy. A lot of SMEs have been liquidated due to lack of basic infrastructure,” he added. The professor also pointed out that most SMEs face the challenge of qualified manpower and capacity. “With lack of research and development (R&D) and professional business as well as management prowess, most SMEs are left to learning-by-error method of operation. This has resulted to collapse in some business units,” he argued. He said: “in the Nigerian business space, there is a huge gap in information linking SMEs and the market environment. This asymmetric information disproportion has stunted the potential of business expansion, since the SMEs are generally not in touch with market realities. In other words, there is huge communication gap between SMEs and the market in which they operate.” Small businesses unaware of FG’s interventions – Osinbajo ‘What Nigeria’s SMEs need to compete globally’ LCCI urges Buhari to assent CAM bill 2018