The Eselu of Iseluland in Oja-Odan, Yewa-North Local Government Area, Ogun State, Oba Akintunde Akinyemi, has threatened to unleash traditional warriors in the town on herdsmen whose cows have allegedly been destroying farmlands in the community. Oba Akinyemi issued the threat on Tuesday while addressing some farmers who protested at his palace to express their sad experiences in the hands of the herders. The monarch said some herdsmen had invaded Iselu, Oja-Odan and the environs in large numbers with over 8,000 cows from the Republic of Benin, from where they had allegedly been driven out. Oba Akinyemi alleged that the cows had been feeding on and destroying acres of farmland. The Eselu appealed to the state government to intervene and ensure the herdsmen leave the community before the situation deteriorates. The monarch said, “My people are here today to agitate against the abuse, killings and destruction of crops by the herdsmen in our community. Ever since I have been on the throne, this has always been a problem we have been trying to tame. But because of the stubbornness of these herdsmen, it has become so difficult to tame them. “Many of them are from Benin Republic and Niger. We can’t take it anymore. The soldiers in Republic of Benin have chased them out and they have now seen our community as an alternative at the expense of the peace of our people. They are now destroying our crops, raping our women and maiming our men. I am appealing to the government to urgently come to the aid of our people.” One of the victims, Michael Kushoro, claimed the herdsmen had destroyed his 10-hectare cassava farmland and appealed to Governor Dapo Abiodun for his immediate intervention. In his reaction, the spokesman of the Ogun State Police Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said he was aware of the herdsmen activities in the area and the Command had set up a committee comprising the relevant stakeholders in the state to address the problem. Oyeyemi said, “We are not oblivious of the fact that herdsmen are disturbing the people in that area. We don’t have problems with indigenous herdsmen, but with those in transit. You know the place shares a border with Benin Republic. Herdsmen that always come from Benin are always the problem. They are the ones that brought their cattle to destroy the people’s farms here.” Ogun monarch’s murder: Family accuses police of shielding prime suspect, others Tension in Kuje community  over alleged farm invasion Kuje: Averting farmers/herders clash at Kabbi community