A yet-to-be-unidentified man was reportedly killed during a protest that followed a fire incident that occurred at the ancient Akesan market in Oyo, Oyo State, when angry youths vent their anger on the fire service station in the town for the officers’ alleged inability to quickly put out the fire. Stores containing goods worth many millions of naira were said to have been destroyed in the outbreak, which was gathered to have started about 12.30am yesterday. The immediate cause of the fire was yet to be confirmed. Eyewitnesses told our correspondent that the Fire Service station in Oyo town located only a few metres away from the market could not curtail the situation for lack of equipment and a reinforcement of fire fighters had to be mobilised from Ibadan, the capital city, and Ogbomosho which is about 50 kilometres away from the spot of the incident. The people of the town reportedly went wild with rage when a Fire official told them they could not totally quell the fire because there was no water in their fire truck. Operatives of the state-owned anti-crime outfit, Operation Burst, were called in to put the situation under control, although nobody was able to give the exact identity of the person who fired the shot that fell one of the protesting youths. The Oyo State police spokesman, Mr Gbenga Fadeyi, told our correspondent he would intensify investigation to unravel the culprit. Fadeyi assured that more men had been drafted to the scene to restore normalcy and help put out the fire out completely. Worried by the development, an Oyo town-based youth group, Oyo Global Forum, argued in a statement that a good part of the market would have been saved if the nearby fire station had functional equipment. The youths said in the statement, signed by the Secretary of the group, Mr Taiwo Hassan Adebayo, that they would in due course demand from the state government due compensation and rebuilding of the market. Meanwhile, the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr Sunday Dare, has expressed sadness over the incident. Dare tweeted, “The news of the inferno that destroyed the popular Akesan ancient market in Oyo just got to me. I am deeply saddened by this disaster so early in the year and extend my condolences to all those affected. I will visit shortly and work with the state government to bring relief.” Fire destroys  Ajegunle market Fire razes FRCN Ibadan We cried like babies   – Ibadan tanker fire survivors