Over 5000 residents of the Games Village in Lagos yesterday protested against the sale of the sewage system plant serving the former Eric Moore Towers and other estates in the neighbourhood and asked the federal government to return the system back to residents. The residents of the Towers, which comprise 144 flats, another 340 flats of red brick buildings and some other buildings that make up the Games Village in Surulere, Lagos, lamented that they had been cut off from the sewage system. They raised an alarm that the community might experience an outbreak of epidemics following the absence of the sewage system. The residents yesterday staged a peaceful protest, carrying placards and asking the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to return the sewage system to them. The Chairman of the Games Village Community Development Association (CDA), Mr Johnson Oguns, noted that the sewage plant, which is adjacent to the estate, was sold out to a private company that is erecting a high-rise building on the land. According to Oguns, following the sale of the sewage plant, the CDA took the case to court. However, to their dismay, he claimed, work had started on the property housing the sewage plant while the case was still being heard. He said, “We want the sewage system to be returned to the occupants of this estate. How can you sell a house to somebody and sell the toilet there to another person. “We want the President to know about this. Whoever bought it should know that it is a bad market. We want the thing returned to the occupants.” A resident at the estate, Moshood Salvador, who is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), noted that the masterplan of Surulere reserved the land for the community’s sewage treatment. Salvador said, “The whole community is saying no, no, to this development because they cannot resort to digging a soak-away where there is no land for them to do so. It is the standard anywhere in the world that high rises don’t go by soak-aways but by sewage systems and plants. The sewage has been exposed and everyday people are falling ill.”  Residents bemoan Abuja stinking status Meet dwellers of Abuja’s Ajegunle The fear of possible  cholera outbreak in Abuja