The Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN) is set to introduce fresh port charges on imported goods. The council on Monday announced the commencement of the payment of N1000 on 20 feet container, N2000 on 40 feet container, 350 kobo per ton on general cargo while it will cost N1 per ton on bulk cargo to be paid it. The council, at a meeting held in Lagos to sensitize freight forwarders, said it has got approval from the Ministry of Finance to collect Practitioners Operating Fee (POF) from freight forwarders and customs brokers operating in the country. Speaking at the conference, the registrar of the council, Barrister Samuel Nwakohu said the stage is set for the commencement of the fresh charges which would be communicated to practitioners in no distant time. He maintained that collection of POF will not increase the cost of doing business in the ports. But the freight forwarders vowed to resist the move, saying that the fresh charges would bring about inflation. They said rather than introduce fresh port charges, government should reduce the amount paid for registration for both company and individual. According to Mr. Yomi Adebola: “Other professional bodies like ICAN pay professional dues annually; why not limit our own too to annual payment instead of asking us to pay per shipment. “We pay customs duty and other charges; this one you want us to pay, who do we refer it to? “This system will lead to more demurrage in the port before they say we must pay before our cargo can exit the port. “We pay importation duty to customs, that is the VAT, 7 percent, 1 percent CIS, shipping company charges of container charges and rent on the container, you will pay all these charges with VAT. “You will pay terminal charges with VAT, if you import goods relating to NAFDAC, you will pay them with VAT, if you bring in goods relating to SON, you will pay with VAT, so also Plant Quarantine Service, you will pay their money with VAT. “Whether you pay normal duty or not, you will pay for dropping of container, customs examination and releasing fees. All these are borne by the importer.’’ Mr.Iwunor John of NAFFAC Airport chapter said, “Do you know how many taxes we pay in the airport; FAAN collects several charges from us and they will still collect money for identity cards up to the tune of N15,000. “There are other groups that collect money and we are not collecting salary from anybody. Why will you not have mercy on us?’’ Indigenous importers may abandon Nigerian ports over high charges Freight forwarders threaten strike over failed call-up system FG should connect ports to national grid – Hassan Bello