At least 12 persons including three kids and a woman were confirmed dead and 26 others injured in Kano State yesterday in an auto crash, Daily Trust can report. The accident, which occurred at Tsaida Mahaka Yankifi village in Gaya Local Government Area, involved two commercial vehicles; an 18-seater Toyota bus popularly known as Hummer and a Volkswagen Golf-3 car with registration numbers BBR 690 AA and KTG 467 YG respectively. The two vehicles had a head-on collision, resulting to the death of 11 persons; three kids, a woman and seven male adults, on the spot, while the 12th casualty (a male) died at the Gaya General Hospital while receiving treatment. When this reporter visited Gaya General Hospital where the corpses were deposited, he observed that the woman victim was crushed beyond recognition. It was further observed that some of the survivors were groaning on the floor of the Accident and Emergency unit of the hospital though they had been given first aid treatment by the doctors. Malam Mustapha Adamu, the driver of one of the vehicles involved in the crash, told Daily Trust that the driver of one of the vehicles crashed after an incoming car tried to overtake some vehicles ahead of him. “We were coming from Azare heading to Kano, while the other driver was coming from Kano heading towards Shuwarin. He attempted to overtake the vehicles he was following, thinking that he could make it before he reaches our bus that was coming from the other lane. Though, I was able to drive onto the shoulder of the road to avoid the accident, but in the end, we collided. “I cannot say how many people died in my bus because all I know is that we had an accident. I cannot remember what happened after that. I only found myself in the hospital. “As you can see also, many others have sustained various degrees of injuries. Although, I sustain minor bruises in my legs and shoulder, but you can see many passengers are in critical condition as they are severely injured,” he said as tears flowed down his checks. The driver of the other vehicle involved in the mishap, even though alive, was found groaning in pain on the floor of the hospital. The man, who could not utter a word to the health workers around, was only pointing to his chest, an indication that he might have sustained internal injury. Another survivor, Muhammad Musa, who sustained fracture on his hand, told Daily Trust that the collision was like a dream saying, “I only heard a loud sound after the two vehicles collided and after that, I was not conscious of happenings, until when we were brought to the hospital. “I had a fracture in my hand and injuries all over my face and legs. Honestly, I am feeling serious pains all over my body, it is not clear whether I have internal injury or not. Until after the doctors conduct their examinations.” Alhaji Aliyu Adamu Fan-Idau, the district head of the area, told our reporter that “I was standing few kilometres away from the scene of the accident when it happened. I was called on phone while I was driving, so, I parked my vehicle in order to answer the call. “It was while I was answering the call that I heard a loud sound followed by a thick smock. To be candid with you, I thought my people who were also waiting for me close to the scene of the accident have fallen victims. “When I arrived the scene of the accident, I found corpses scattered everywhere, I could not hold back my tears. I summoned courage and helped the police to evacuate the corpses and survivors from the scene.” Malam Abdullahi Muhammad who lost two children in the accident told Daily Trust, “I have left everything to God the Almighty. To God we come and to Him we shall all return. Wherever my children are, they must die and God had made it that they must die today, so there is nothing anyone can do to stop them from returning to their creator. “Somebody called me on phone and informed me about the accident. I was not told that I have lost my children until after I came to the hospital and saw their corpses.” When contacted, the Corps Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Kano Sector Command, Zubairu Mato, said the accidents involved 38 persons comprising 19 male adults, five female adults, nine boys and five girls. He said, “12 out of the figures comprising eight male adults, one female adult and three boys died, while 26 others including 11 male adults, six female adults, six boys and three girls sustained various degrees of injuries.”  FRSC: 12 persons died in Kano road accident 3 killed, 4 injured in Awawa auto crash 3 die, 50 injured in Kogi auto crash