The Ajia Balogun of Ibadanland, Chief Adegboyega Adegoke, has called on the federal government and National Assembly to assign constitutional roles for the traditional rulers through constitutional amendment. Adegoke, who made the call during the weekend at his promotion and installation ceremony as Ajia Balogun of Ibadan land, said there is need for government to involve traditional rulers in governance because of their closeness to the grassroots and downtrodden. He said, “Traditional rulers are more closer to the people than local government chairmen. It is very hard to see anyone who will not recognize his monarch. But they may not even know their chairman. “So, for democracy to thrive, there is need for involvement of traditional rulers in governance. Government should not always wait till when there is a crisis or election period before running to traditional rulers for their intervention. “They should be part of government at all the three tiers of government in order for this Democracy to thrive.” Among those elevated were Chief Gboyega Orogunmodi from Bada Balogun to Oota Balogun of Ibadanland and Chief Adetunji Lanihun from Gbonka Olubadan to Aregbe-Omo Olubadan. Chief Babajide Ayoade from Ajia Balogun to Aregbe-Omo Balogun, Chief Dauda Gbadamosi from Are Onibon Olubadan to Gbonka Olubadan and Chief Adetokunbo Akintola from Jagun Balogun to Gbonka Balogun Ibadanland. On the list were Chief Oyeleke Oyekola from Bada Olubadan to Are Onibon Olubadan, Chief Oluyinka Akande from Ajia Olubadan to Bada Olubadan and Chief Olukorede Olubota from Jagun Olubadan to Ajia Olubadan. Also elevated were Mogaji Nureni Akanbi of Iba Oluyole family to Aare Onibon Balogun Ibadanland and Mogaji Kayode Kadelu of Kadelu family now Bada Balogun Ibadanland Others were Mogaji Aderoju Olasunkanmi of Aladorin family to Jagun Olubadan Ibadanland and Mogaji Olatunji Arulogun of Enimowu Arulogun family now Jagun Balogun Ibadanland. Oba Adetunji commended the newly elevated chiefs for their contributions to Ibadanland, urging them not to relent in supporting developmental projects in Ibadan. English now  ‘taboo’ for Imo traditional rulers 32 royal fathers kidnapped in 4 years Jos crisis: Traditional rulers urged to hold interactive forum