Abdulmumini Jibril, who will be participating in the January 25, 2020 re-run election in Kano State for Kiru/Bebeji federal constituency seat in the House of Representatives says the year 2019 is a good year for President Muhammadu Buhari. Jibril, who spoke at the State House, Abuja after meeting President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday, said the achievements recorded in the areas of agriculture, economy, infrastructure development, fight against corruption and insecurity must be sustained. “I had audience with Mr President and a regular audience to discuss with him all the achievements during the year, to commend him on the progress we’ve made in the economy, fight against corruption and the issue of security in the country and to look at issues having to do with massive infrastructural development going on across the country. We need to sustain it “The agricultural revolution going on, we need to sustain it. The fight against insurgency and the successes that have been recorded and of course, the cordial relationship that now exists between the executive and the legislature. “By and large, it’s been a very good year for the President and the government and I think we all have the responsibility to commend him. That’s what we discussed, essentially.” When told that some people in Kano were opposed to his return to National Assembly, Jibril said, “That’s not true. It’s the usual rumour, we are working harmoniously and I’m sure that the rerun will be very successful, not only in Kano for the APC, but all over the country where rerun will be held on the 25th.” On the notion that he came to seek the intervention of President Buhari because his relationship with Governor Umar Ganduje was no longer cordial, the chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) said, “My relationship with my governor is cordial. He’s always been a father and nothing has changed.” Jibril, while speaking on whether he would remain frank and vociferous if he found his way back to the House of Representatives, said, “Nothing has changed about me and nothing will change. I’ll continue to be the person that I am; the frank and very blunt and continue to contribute my quota towards the development of the country.”  Why 2019 is a good year for Buhari - Jibril Our campaign tour proves my fitness to lead Nigeria – Buhari Buhari: I’ll continue to reposition police, judiciary