The Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Engineer Noimot Salako – Oyedele has expressed the state government preparedness to resuscitate the abandoned Olokola sea port project,  as part of government move to improve the capacity of transportation extensively. Salako-Oyedele made this known when she led government delegation on a visit to the Managing Director of Nigeria Port Authority(NPA) Ms Hadiza Bala Usman at the Port Headquarters, Marina, Lagos. She hinted that the visit was meant to seek expertise advise and ensure synergy between Ogun State government and NPA before taking further steps. “The Olokola sea port is fantastic for Nigeria, even our State and that’s why we are very keen to attract investors to this project and to let them see how we can resuscitate it vis-a-vis the development further down the coast of Lagos at the moment. We equally want to see how we can work through and what scale we can re-introduce the project as to what it was in early 2000 when it was first envisaged,” she said. The Deputy Governor explained that a meeting was held with the officials at the Consulate General, United Arab Emirates Affairs in Lagos on how to invest in Ogun State, and this informed the visit of Fujairah Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the Head of Strategy and others from the United Arab Emirates to Ogun State for  an assessment which included an aerial survey and view of Apapa, Tin-can Island and  Olokola. Responding, the Managing Director of NPA, Ms Hadiza Bala Usman commended the State Government for the move, saying it was important to have cleared locations in terms of environmental issues. She noted that Ondo State Government had brought similar proposal and it is important to encourage collaboration between the two states to work together as one. Earlier in his remarks,  the Secretary to the State Government, Tokunbo Talabi said a project might be localised but the impact would be felt nationally, saying there is the need to let the would-be investors know that they were not just been taking around but the state government has the cooperation and  full support of the  relevant authorities. Olokola FTZ: At the mercy of political intrigues? Prompt turnaround time, security of ships our main goal –NPA MD Nigeria’s Chaos, Benin Republic’s Gains