There is apprehension among primary school teachers in Kuje Area Council of the FCT as some teachers are expected to be posted to rural schools in the area. Unabated incidents of kidnappings in the rural communities of the area council have created fear in the teachers, City News learnt. The decision to redeploy some teachers to rural schools was arrived at after a committee set up by the chairman of the council, Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, on August 20, 2019, submitted its report to him recently. The committee report observed that some primary schools in the urban centre are over staffed, while rural schools are under staffed. The committee, therefore, recommended the redeployment and posting of teaching and non-teaching staff across all the primary schools in Kuje area council. “All NCE & B.ed holders serving in LEA  head office and clerks with the above qualifications other than HODs, school supervisors and quality assurance should be posted as class teachers,” the committee recommended. Some of the teachers who spoke with our reporter said they were not against the redeployment, but said the insecurity prevalent in the rural communities was a serious threat to their lives. A teacher, Ismaila Musa, said there was need for the council authorities to put on hold the redeployment pending when security situation must have improved. He said it will be ‘suicidal’ if any teacher was posted to teach in a village despite the incessant cases of kidnappings happening daily in rural areas. “I don’t think it is ideal for the area council authorities to succumb to the recommendations of the committee for now because of the security situation in rural communities, which has affected teaching and learning of the pupils,” he said. Another teacher, Bernard Yakubu, said the move by the council to embark on redeployment of teachers to rural schools amidst insecurity in rural communities was wrong. He said there are some teachers that fall victim of kidnappings while on their way to their schools, saying the move was seriously causing apprehension among some teachers. Kuje council recruits over 200 teachers for rural schools Kidnappings: Civil servants cut travel to home towns Sokoto requires 548 additional teachers in public schools