Abuja Markets Management Limited, Managers of Wuse Market, has said it will provide solution to the perennial traffic challenge within and around the market soon. The market managers were responding to a letter from the Ministerial Task Team on Traffic, which was signed by the chairman,  Mr Ikharo Attah,  urging them to take a bold and speedy step to address the menace. A letter addressed to the task team by the  Managing Director, Abuja Markets Management Limited (AMML), Abubakar Usman Faruk, indicated that provision of automated tolling system at the market’s gate would eliminate the traffic. He said they were already at the verge of eliminating the traffic gridlock even before the request from the task team was made. Faruk said: “We are aware of the status of Wuse market as the shopping destination of choice in the FCT and  the expected traffic challenge that comes with it. As a leading facility management company in the country, we couldn’t have folded our arms and allowed this very key service delivery issue to linger.” The market managers said it had in the past, applied various manual traffic management approaches even in collaboration with some relevant agencies but that the pressure did not abate. “After a long period of consultation with our key stakeholders, we are now introducing technology to the parking/traffic management by first automating the access and tolling processes” they added. Noting that this process was already about 70 percent completed before the observation of the task team, AMML assured that the automated tolling system would   be rolled out in matter of weeks. “When this takes off, we intend to programme the parking software in such a manner that people who park cars in the market for the whole day would be discouraged from doing so”, the letter read. It added: “That to us, is the most sustainable strategy that can guarantee free flow of traffic in and out of the market since parking space as a fixed factor, cannot be increased endlessly to match increasing demand”. FCTA orders AMML to clear Wuse market gridlock FCTA to float online shopping platform Why we’re introducing timed parking in our markets — AMML