…allegations are baseless – AMAC A non-governmental organisation, Civil Society for Human Rights and Rehabilitation, has called for the investigation of the Chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Abdullahi Adamu Candido, over alleged infractions. The group in a petition submitted to the speaker of AMAC legislative council, Abubakar Baushe, urged the councillors to investigate the chairman for alleged breach of Appropriation and Procurement Acts. The group led a protest to the council secretariat on Wednesday during which a petition signed by Comrade Joseph Jonah, was submitted to the speaker. The petition reads in part, “Contrary to clear provisions of the Appropriation Act, the Council Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu Candido, has consistently and continuously failed, refused and neglected to furnish the National Assembly with quarterly status reports of the council’s statutory accounts. “The refusal is bad and renders the chairman liable to be investigated and possibly impeached for two reasons. First, it shrouds the finances of the council in secrecy, thereby creating room for fraud, misappropriation and misuse of public funds.” The council’s Divisional Head of Information, Mrs Patience Olaloye, however, said there was no evidence to prove the allegations. “As far as we are concerned, the allegations are baseless, because they cannot substantiate what they are saying. They are alleging misappropriation of funds, misconduct and failure to fix bad roads and others. But everyone is aware of what the chairman is doing in the council, the number of roads that have been constructed, rehabilitated since his coming to the office. “So, what are they talking about? We really don’t understand what they are talking about. They are saying contracts have been awarded in the city council which were advertised, we want to say that’s not true. “Because we have evidence to show that all the contracts that are being awarded in the council are duly advertised. And we believe that they should come to the council to investigate some of these issues they are bringing forward,” she said. AMAC chairman signs 2019 ‘budget of hope’ Schools are not meant for social or religious gatherings – Candido I don’t regret working with councillors – AMAC boss