Rep. Abdulmumin Ari (APC-Nasarawa/Toto) has paid the West African Examination Certificate (WAEC) fees for 2,428 indigent students in public secondary schools in his constituency. Ari said he paid over N33.9 million to enable the beneficiaries undertake the examination and reduce the burden of WAEC fees on parents. The lawmaker disclosed this on Monday in Nasarawa while presenting cheques to principals of 30 public secondary schools in his constituency that benefited from the gesture. “Today, I am presenting cheques of N33,992,000 to principals of public secondary schools of my constituency as WAEC fees for 2,428 final year students. “I am paying N14,000 each and this is part of my commitment to improve on the standard of education and to reduce the burden of WAEC fees on their parents. “The importance of education to societal development cannot be overemphasised, hence the need for the gesture,’’ he said. Ari also disclosed that in 2019, he paid N100,000 each to 18 students studying Nursing and Midwifery to complement their parents and government investment in their education. The legislator urged the beneficiaries to take their studies with seriousness to excel in their academic pursuits in the interest of development. Ari restated his commitment to initiate good policies and programmes that would have direct bearing on the lives of the people of his constituency and the country at large. Alhaji Mohammed Sani, chairman of Nasarawa Local Government Council, commended the lawmaker for the gesture, describing it as `first of its kind’ in the constituency. The chairman urged the lawmaker to sustain the programme and drummed support for the APC-led government at all levels to enable them to succeed. Messrs Douglas Otaru and Isaiah Agah, the state publicity secretary and welfare secretary of APC, respectively, also commended Ari for the gesture and urged people of the area to cooperate with him to deliver more dividends of democracy. (NAN)  APC chieftain promises to pay indigent students’ WAEC fees LG Chairman pays WAEC/NECO fees for 500 students in Nasarawa Stakeholders praise Ekiti gov’t over exam fees payment