About 175 indigent students in 38 schools drawn from seven local government areas in Kaduna State yesterday received a scholarship from the Uba Sani Foundation. The foundation, which prioritises education, health, youth and women empowerment, is being sponsored by the senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District, Uba Sani as part of efforts to provide succour to his constituents. Speaking at the maiden edition of the West African Examination Council (WAEC)/ Senior Secondary School Examination (SSCE) Scholarship award ceremony for 175 indigent students, Uba Sani lamented that education in Northern Nigeria is in serious crises. “A recent survey, conducted by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), indicates that the population of out-of-school children in Nigeria has risen from 10.5 million to 13.2 million, the highest in the world. Most of the children are out of school while some have never been to school. “Of this outrageous population of out of school children about 70 per cent are in the north. This is quite disturbing and must worry all of us who still care for the north and Nigeria in general. “Let us stop the lamentations and get fully involved in educational development by supporting the efforts of government. “Adopt a school and help to lift it to higher standards in terms of infrastructure and the availability of instructional materials and quality teachers. Adopt an indigent student and take responsibility for his or her schooling. Increasing the population of the educated is the surest way of fast-tracking the development of the north and Nigeria in general,” he said. He appealed to the leaders of the region to chart out a plan for the development of education to avoid mortgaging the future of the youths. Senator Sani said the scholarship scheme was designed to assist brilliant children who might not be able to continue their educational pursuit owing to the inability of their parents to pay the required fees. 575 indigent students benefits from NGO scholarship Foundation provides support to indigent students UBA to reward top schools at essay contest