Political scheming has halted the election of a new chairman for the Gombe State Traders’ Association, a parent body of all markets associations across the 11 local government areas of the state. North East Trust reports that the politicking started soon after the expiration of the tenure of immediate leadership under Alhaji Saidu Sulaiman Maikusa. Maikusa, who finished a four-year term in office, refused to seek for re-election, thereby making the contest open to all. Observers of the Gombe markets local politics said initially about 16 people indicated interest to contest for the seat, however after the fee for the nomination forms was pegged at N250, 000, 12 people withdrew from the contest leaving only four candidates to slug it out. As such, only the four candidates purchased the nomination forms and launched their campaigns seeking votes of fellow traders from the Gombe main market and local branches across the 11 LGAs. A frontline contender for the chairmanship seat is Alhaji Uba Abdullahi, the current Chairman of Gombe State Inter-Local Markets Association. He is dealer of Agro-Allied chemicals and insecticides. He was said to have the backing of majority of the traders in the market. According to insiders at the Gombe main market, as chairman of the local markets associations, Alhaji Uba, as he is popularly known, assisted so many small scale traders with interest free loans which boosted their businesses. It was gathered that what endeared him to most of the traders across the state is that he was always available and ready whenever any member of the association needed an assistance or got into trouble. He has over 20 people working under him, in addition to numerous others that he mentored who became successful and opened their independent shops at the Gombe and other markets across the state. Another contender for the seat is Alhaji Bala Ibrahim, popularly called ‘Jikan Shehu.’ He is one of the major dealers of  travelling bags at the Gombe main market. He has about 15 people directly working under him. He was said to be always ready to offer his help whenever his assistance was needed to develop the market and assisted any members that sought for his help . The third candidate is Alhaji Ibrahim Migini, one of the major wholesalers and retailers of textile and fabrics at the Gombe market. Migini, as he is popularly known, is the immediate past Secretary of the Gombe State Traders Association. He also has several people working under him and believed to have the backing of prominent elders of the market, a development that allegedly stalled the conduct of the election. A dealer in electronic appliances at the main market, Alhaji Abubakar Danladi, is the fourth candidate in the race for chairmanship of the traders association. He has several shops across the markets and engaged about 15 people manning them. North East Trust gathered that divergent interest from major stakeholders in the market has stalled the conduct of the election, two months after the tenure of the last administration expired. While the elders are believed to be backing Ibrahim Migini, most members of the association, from the Gombe main market and beyond, are believed to be supporting Uba Abdullahi to emerge as the chairman of the association. To prevent crisis at the market, the state Ministry of Youth and Sport, the ministry responsible for conducting elections for executives of clubs and associations, has suspended conduct of the election. When contacted, the Commissioner of Youth and Sport, Mr Julius Ishaya, said the election was  postponed to allow for proper organisation so that the outcome would accepted by all contestants. “The Gombe market traders have written to the ministry about the conduct of an election for the office of the chairman and at the time, Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya was out of the country. “However, an election of that magnitude needs proper preparation to avoid rancour, so we asked them to put it on hold till we get the governor’s approval,” he said. But an impeccable source at the ministry said the ministry postponed the election because at the time  the atmosphere at the   market was heated, “therefore the ministry stopped the election to  allow things to cool down.” ‘It’s impossible to uproot PDP in Gombe’ 448 aspirants jostle for APC LG tickets in Nasarawa We will bury PDP in Gombe - Nafada