The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday challenged the Justice Tanko Mohammed-led Supreme Court Panel that heard the 2019 governorship apeal on Imo to recuse itself from the pending cases on Bauchi, Sokoto, Benue and Adamawa states. The PDP argued that sequel to the judgement delivered on the Imo state governorship election on Tuesday, it was clear to it that the panel cannot be neutral in the pending cases. Addressing a press conference in Abuja today, the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, said the party would resist any attempt to subvert the will of the people in Sokoto, Benue, Adamawa and Bauchi states. Secondus, who asked the apex court to review and reverse the judgement on Imo governorship election in favour of the PDP, alleged that the verdict was a product of executive manipulation and recipe for crisis. Secondus also argued that the judgement was a miscarriage of justice and coup against the PDP and the people of Imo which he stressed must not be allowed to stand. “What is more perplexing is the fact that INEC produced a schedule of reasons why results were not produced from the 388 units. “Indeed, election did not even take place in most of the units for one reason or another, like violence, etc and so no result could possibly be obtained from those units. The results were not merely rejected or cancelled by INEC. “None of the candidates or their Counsel, except perhaps APC, as we speak, are aware of the number of votes scored by each party from the 388 polling units. The Tribunal or Court of Appeal did not mention or ascribe any figure from the units to any party in their decisions. “In fact, in the cross examination of the APC candidate, Sen. Hope Uzodinma, he could not read any figure from the “Oluwole” results. He said that the figures were not clear. And so, it beats our imagination where the Supreme Court conjured and manufactured the figures it used in declaring Uzodinma/APC as duly elected. “In the light of extraordinary circumstances that vitiate that judgment as a product of manipulation and a clear coup d’etat against the will of the people of Imo State, we demand that the decision of the Supreme Court on the Imo governorship election be reviewed and reversed in the interest of justice. “Furthermore, we demand that Justice Tanko Mohammed, the CJN and his colleagues on the Imo governorship panel recuse themselves from the remaining cases involving the PDP in the Supreme Court,” Secondus said. Gov’ship tussle: Tension in Bauchi, Sokoto, Imo as S/Court resumes hearing today Fate of 7 govs uncertain 2019: Major political events in Nigeria