The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has asked Justice Tanko Mohammed to steps down as Chief Justice of Nigeria and Chairman of the National Judicial Council. The party made the demand on Friday when its leaders stormed the United Kingdom (UK) and American Embassies in Abuja, in their large numbers protesting alleged plot by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to stifle opposition in the country. The National Working Committee (NWC), Board of Trustees (BoT), National Assembly members as well as women and youths staged the peaceful protest demanding for justice and good governance in the country. The PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus who led the protest first submitted a petition to the American Embassy and later to the UK embassy. Addressing newsmen at the US Embassy, Secondus said Nigerians were passing through hard times. He explained that the essence of the protest and submission of the petitions was to call on the international community to prevail on the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to obey the rule of law and rescue the nation from the current economic and security challenges. “They should advise the government to obey the rule of law. We are passing through challenging times. Mr President has lost control. Our nation is in pain and as a party we cannot keep quiet. “This country belongs to everyone; every citizen. This is not the time for propaganda. It is not time for Presidency to respond to criticisms. “The issue is that people are dying of poverty and hunger everyday. But the present government is not understanding the issues. So we are here to submit a petition,” Secondus said. The PDP in the petition made available to Daily Trust called on the United States and the international community to “take more than a passing glance” and prevailed on the Supreme Court to reverse its verdict on Imo governorship election which sacked its candidate as governor in order to “avoid an imminent breakdown of law and order.” “Our demand is that Justice Tanko Mohammed immediately steps down as CJN and Chairman of the National Judicial Council as Nigerians have lost confidence in him and a Supreme Court under his leadership,” the PDP said. A PDP official told our correspondent in confidence that the party was planning to also submit its petition to the European Union (EU) on a later date.  PDP Youth leader petitions US, UK, Germany, accuses APC of political intimidation We want election not war - Diri tells diplomats UK embassy in Tehran to reopen