Stakeholders in the Maritime sector are demanding a probe into the use of N1.6 billion for recruitment of officers at the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). The Comptroller General of Customs (CGC), Col. Hameed Ali (rtd) was said to have approved N1.6bn to recruit 3,200 job seekers in the ongoing employment exercise. Following the allegation, the stakeholders demanded the immediate investigation, urging the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) to wade into the matter. The Vice President of Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Mr. Kayode Farinto said such allegation is too weighty to be discarded. He said: “The allegation should be investigated, and if found to be untrue, then the Senator should be made to face the consequences of his action.” Former National President of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Olayiwola Shittu urged agencies of government with forensic capabilities to investigate the allegation. Shittu said, “When people that ought to know about issues speak out on fraudulent activities, then the authorities need to do the needful and investigate it properly. “Government agencies with forensic capabilities like the EFCC, ICPC should wade in and investigate the matter,” he noted. The National President of the National Council of Managing Directors of Customs Licensed Agents, (NCMDCLA), Lucky Amiwero, who also spoke on the issue demanded that there should be a public hearing on the allegation. Recall that the Vice Chairman of the Senate Committee on Customs, Senator Ade Fadahunsi had accused the Comptroller General of Customs, Hameed Ali, of paying the sum of N1.6bn to a consultant for the recruitment of 3,200 personnel into the Service. Fadahunsi is a retired Assistant Comptroller-General of Customs and Senator representing Osun East Senatorial District. Stakeholders: FG should use Customs revenue to fix port roads NSC should sponsor a bill to protect certain jobs - ANLCA President Customs agents threaten diversion of oil, gas cargo