Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Farouq, has said the federal government is ready to support Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) from the northeast who are interested in returning to their homes. The minister, who disclosed this  when she paid a courtesy visit to Governor Bala Muhammed shortly before the distribution of the relief materials to over 56,000 IDPs in Bauchi, said the North East Development Commission (NEDC) has intensified  efforts to resettle the IDPs. “For those IDPs, who wished to settle in their host communities, those who have found home in Bauchi state should be supported to integrate here. I asure you,  Your Excellency, that we are going to look at all the critical areas. “We are going to seek for your support and understanding for us to settle them here in Bauchi and for those who are willing to return home the federal government will provide the necessary support to resettle them.” The minister, who visited all the three IDPs camps and partook in the distribution of the relief materials at Wuntin Dada, Inkil and Bauchi township camp, appealed to the IDPs for their cooperation as the government strived to rebuild  their lives. Responding, Governor Bala Mohammed, who was represented by his deputy, Senator Baba Tela, thanked the minister for the support and disclosed that the over 56,000 IDPs taking refuge in the state are mostly from Yobe and Borno states. He urged the minister to redouble the support to the IDPs in Bauchi so as to complement government efforts of  resettling them. In a chat with North East Trust, one of IDPs, 56-year-old Aisha Muhammed and a mother six from Goza town in Borno, said that she was not going back  because of the security challenges in area. “I have spent six years in Bauchi after we were displaced by Boko Haram insurgents. They killed my husband and other relatives. I will not return to Goza again because I am now sleeping with my two eyes closed in Bauchi and I am not ready to return to crisis ridden zone.” “I have assimilated the life in Bauchi and I am happy here despite my condition I engage in house chores in Bauchi town washing plates and clothes of people to earn a living. “I have six children and we are living together at Tudun Salmanu area of the metropolis. I am grateful for gesture of food items and clothing from federal government but I don’t intend to return to Goza. I want to spend the rest of my life here.” The leader of the Inkil IDPs camp, Alhaji Bulama Gujja, thanked the federal government for the gesture.  5000 Bauchi IDPs to benefit from World Bank intervention grant Borno needs over N700m  to resettle IDPs – SEMA boss Why it took 6 months to resettle Plateau IDP’s – Lalong