…Only for residents to repeatedly hand them in to police Residents of a village have been left baffled by large rolls of £20 notes – adding up to around £2,000 (about N752,000)  – which keep appearing in plain sight in County Durham, a seaside village. Twelve bundles have so far surfaced and been handed to police since 2014 – four of them this year. Cops believe the packets could have been left by a Good Samaritan. The cash usually mysteriously appears on pavements and in plain sight but always at different spots. Local cops are still scratching their heads as they probe where the cash is coming from. Detective Constable John Forster said officers have quizzed several local residents and organisations in the village, as well as carrying out checks with the local bank and post office. They have even tested for fingerprints but have yet to find answers. DC Foster said: “This is the fourth bundle handed in this year. “This could be the work of a Good Samaritan but we would like to thank the residents who have shown incredible community spirit by handing the money in. “The circumstances remain a mystery so we would welcome any information that will help us get to the bottom of these random incidents.” Police believe it is not part of a crime operation and have ruled out the likelihood of it coming from drug dealing or money launderers. DC Foster added: “County Durham and Darlington remains a relatively safe place to live or work and that area is not worse than anywhere else. “I am massively impressed with the local community who have brought the money in. “We would have to assume there is some money that has not been handed in, but every single one of the families that handed the cash in have been absolutely spot on and so humble, as well. “First and foremost they wanted to return the money to someone who had lost it. “It isn’t an affluent part of the world, so for them to find cash and that amount to instantly think about taking it to the police station shows the community spirit there is and the strength of the personalities and characters that are there.” He said if no one claims the money after a period of time it is awarded to the person who found it and handed it in.  Culled from thesun.co. uk  Falgore Forest: Where Kano’s deadly  bandits dwelled Konkole: An entire community going blind Non-Boko Haram violence plagues Northern states