The Fulani Community in Oyo state on Thursday converged on Igangan, an agrarian town in the Ibarapa North Local Goverment Area of the state, where they kicked against alleged imposition of one Alhaji Ibrahim Jiji as the State Chairman of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) “based on an order from the above”. The Fulani elders who stormed the palace of the Sarkin Fulani of Oyo State, Alhaji Salihu Kadiri on Thursday morning pointedly accused the National Chairman of MACBAN, Alhaji Muhammadu Kiruwa of unilaterally directing the imposition of Ibrahim Jiji as the state chairman of the body as against the popular will of the stakeholders. The position of the Chairmanship of MACBAN in Oyo state became vacant recently on the expiration of the tenure of office of the immediate-past executive led by Alhaji Yakubu Bello. Consequently, an Electoral Committee headed by Alhaji Kabir Labar was put in place to midwife a new Executive. However, the Fulani community claimed that even though four candidates namely Ibrahim Salihu, Aliyu Mahmood, Mohammed Lawal and Ibrahim Jiji were jostling for the leadership of the new executive, “the Electoral Committee woefully failed to follow due process as they only came out to tell us that the National Chairman, Alhaji Muhammadu Kiruwa has directed the Committee to select Ibrahim Jiji as the new State Chairman”. They alleged foul play in the exercise as they expressed concern that majority of those handpicked into the new Executive are foreign Fulanis in contravention of the Constitution of MACBAN. While stoutly condemning Ibrahim Jiji’s alleged imposition, the Fulani Community in Oyo State called on the State Government and all other authorities “not to recognise anybody parading himself as the Chairman or Executive member of MACBAN in the state until the national body of MACBAN do the needful.” The Fulani Community in Oyo State, however, threatened to take a legal action against the MACBAN leadership. Notable Fulani elders at the peaceful gathering included the Sarkin Fulani of Oyo State, Alhaji Salihu Kadiri; the Sarkin Fulani of Igbo-Ora, Alhaji Idris Abubakar; the Sarkin Fulani of Lanlate, Alhaji Sule Oba; the Chairman of MACBAN in Ibarapa Central, Alhaji Mohammed Olel as well as MACBAN representatives from Oyo, Ogbomoso, Kishi, Iganna, and other parts of Oke Ogun. Speaking with journalists on the peaceful protest, the Sarkin Fulani of Oyo State, Alhaji Salihu Kadiri shared the worries of his subjects saying “we cannot allow the leadership of Miyetti Allah in Oyo state to be in the wrong hands”. The Sarkin Fulani spoke further:  “Our people rejected the unilateral selection and demand for due process. Even if there should be consensus candidates, all the Sarkin Fulanis across Oyo State should be involved in the selection of the rightful candidate and accepted by all members of Miyetti Allah in the state. “All the interest groups should have fair sharing of other posts such as Vice Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer, Woman Leader, Youth Leader and others. “One group should not see themselves as power brokers in Miyetti Allah and resort to imposition of Excos without considering the progress and peaceful coexistence between herders and the host communities. “We just cannot allow the leadership of Miyetti Allah in Oyo State to be in the wrong hands.” When contacted over the matter, the Zonal Chairman of Miyeti Allah who is also the Chairman of the Electoral Committee, Alhaji Kabir Labar confirmed that his Committee actually resorted to selection rather than election following advice from ‘the Elders’ that Jiji, who served as the imnediate past State acting Chairman be elevated to the Chairmanship for continuity “in view of his vast experience”. He also claimed that the Committee’s action was without any ulterior motives. Alhaji Kabir Labar who spoke through Alhaji Yakubu Bello advised all aggrieved parties to sheath their swords and cooperate with the new team in the overall interest of all members. Insecurity: MACBAN begins tour of Fulani settlements in Enugu Security: Miyetti Allah to close down Fulani settlements, markets in Enugu Unidentified gunmen kill Plateau cleric