PAN Nigeria Limited has launched the country’s first virtual auto showroom to allow customers to gain insight on the company’s newest products, including the Higer H5C 16-seater bus, Higer H6C 19-seater bus, and the Higer Ambulance, from the comfort of their homes. The company’s Head of Communication, Mr. Oladeji Victor Bamidele, said the platform which was launched in time for the yuletide season will provide a responsive opportunity to customers to discover the unique features of the Higer bus range while remaining safe in their homes in these COVID-19 times. He explained that the virtual showroom can be accessed through its website. The Acting Managing Director of PAN, Taiwo Oluleye, said, “Customers can explore the design, features, capabilities, and technical details of each variant of the Higer bus and through the virtual showroom, we are bringing the experience of a real PAN showroom by way of virtual reality to our customers. “That way, they can explore all the unique features, capabilities, and technical details of all the Higer buses without stepping out of their homes.” The Higer buses and Higer Ambulance can be optimally used for mass transit, and ambulance services. In addition to having spacious legs and headroom, the buses are equipped with USB charging ports for all passengers/occupants. PAN Nigeria Limited has launched the country’s first virtual auto showroom to allow customers to gain insight on the company’s newest products, including the Higer H5C 16-seater bus, Higer H6C 19-seater bus, and the Higer Ambulance, from the comfort of their homes. The company’s Head of Communication, Mr. Oladeji Victor Bamidele, said the platform which was launched in time for the yuletide season will provide a responsive opportunity to customers to discover the unique features of the Higer bus range while remaining safe in their homes in these COVID-19 times. He explained that the virtual showroom can be accessed through its website. The Acting Managing Director of PAN, Taiwo Oluleye, said, “Customers can explore the design, features, capabilities, and technical details of each variant of the Higer bus and through the virtual showroom, we are bringing the experience of a real PAN showroom by way of virtual reality to our customers. “That way, they can explore all the unique features, capabilities, and technical details of all the Higer buses without stepping out of their homes.” The Higer buses and Higer Ambulance can be optimally used for mass transit, and ambulance services. In addition to having spacious legs and headroom, the buses are equipped with USB charging ports for all passengers/occupants.