Emirates yesterday announced several reshuffling of its commercial team in its Dubai hub and other regional markets including the appointment of a manager for Nigeria. The changes cut across other markets in the Far East, West Asia and Africa. It said with effect from January 1, 2020, Afzal Parambil, currently Regional Manager, West Africa who oversees Nigerian operation, will take on the role of Regional Manager, South Africa while Paulos Legesse, managing Ivory Coast will become Manager for Nigeria. More so, Christophe Leloup, currently Manager Senegal, will become Manager Kenya; while Cathrine Wesley, Country Manager Ghana, will support Ivory Coast in addition to her current role; Arpit Behl, Country Manager Guinea will support Senegal in addition to his current role. Emirates said five seasoned Emirati commercial managers have been placed in key positions to support its commercial strategies as the airline responds to shifting market dynamics and navigates the complex challenges posed by the global pandemic. It also said the rotations demonstrate the depth of UAE National talent within the global commercial team, due in large part to the exposure they are given across the airline’s network. Commenting, Emirates’ Chief Commercial Officer, Adnan Kazim, said: “We are sharpening our focus further and placing extremely capable leaders with diverse experiences to help drive commercial initiatives that stimulate demand and maximise revenue opportunities and margin performance.” Emirates yesterday announced several reshuffling of its commercial team in its Dubai hub and other regional markets including the appointment of a manager for Nigeria. The changes cut across other markets in the Far East, West Asia and Africa. It said with effect from January 1, 2020, Afzal Parambil, currently Regional Manager, West Africa who oversees Nigerian operation, will take on the role of Regional Manager, South Africa while Paulos Legesse, managing Ivory Coast will become Manager for Nigeria. More so, Christophe Leloup, currently Manager Senegal, will become Manager Kenya; while Cathrine Wesley, Country Manager Ghana, will support Ivory Coast in addition to her current role; Arpit Behl, Country Manager Guinea will support Senegal in addition to his current role. Emirates said five seasoned Emirati commercial managers have been placed in key positions to support its commercial strategies as the airline responds to shifting market dynamics and navigates the complex challenges posed by the global pandemic. It also said the rotations demonstrate the depth of UAE National talent within the global commercial team, due in large part to the exposure they are given across the airline’s network. Commenting, Emirates’ Chief Commercial Officer, Adnan Kazim, said: “We are sharpening our focus further and placing extremely capable leaders with diverse experiences to help drive commercial initiatives that stimulate demand and maximise revenue opportunities and margin performance.”