The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, has said major international smartphone industries will soon establish assembling plants in Nigeria. Sylva spoke at the graduation ceremony of 1000 youths trained on GSM phone repairs, maintenance, software and hardware specialisation in Kano by the Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) and the House of Representatives member representing Nasarawa Federal constituency, Nasiru Ali Ahmad. The minister, who spoke virtually at the programme, said the establishment of the assembling plants would be a part of an agreement reached to boost local content development. He said out of the 1000 youths, 600 have fully graduated and 400 will graduate before January 1, 2021, adding that already 2,800 youths were trained in Yobe, Bauchi and Cross River States as Smart Phone Repairs and Technicians. On his part, Nasiru Ali Ahmad, the House Representatives Member from Nasarawa Federal constituency, Kano, said the training was part of his zeal in ensuring that the redundant youths are fully engaged economically. He said plans have already been put in gear to train another 5,000 youths in 2021, adding that all those that have graduated have been provided with shops, tools and other needed things to start up their businesses. The Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero cautioned the graduates against using their acquired skills in devious activities like hacking and internet fraud. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, has said major international smartphone industries will soon establish assembling plants in Nigeria. Sylva spoke at the graduation ceremony of 1000 youths trained on GSM phone repairs, maintenance, software and hardware specialisation in Kano by the Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) and the House of Representatives member representing Nasarawa Federal constituency, Nasiru Ali Ahmad. The minister, who spoke virtually at the programme, said the establishment of the assembling plants would be a part of an agreement reached to boost local content development. He said out of the 1000 youths, 600 have fully graduated and 400 will graduate before January 1, 2021, adding that already 2,800 youths were trained in Yobe, Bauchi and Cross River States as Smart Phone Repairs and Technicians. On his part, Nasiru Ali Ahmad, the House Representatives Member from Nasarawa Federal constituency, Kano, said the training was part of his zeal in ensuring that the redundant youths are fully engaged economically. He said plans have already been put in gear to train another 5,000 youths in 2021, adding that all those that have graduated have been provided with shops, tools and other needed things to start up their businesses. The Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero cautioned the graduates against using their acquired skills in devious activities like hacking and internet fraud.