At least 120 Kano based entrepreneurs are trained on export skills to maximally benefit from the new African trade continental Free Trade (AFCTA) agreement. Speaking at the closing ceremony of the training  in Kano,  the Director General of Small and medium enterprises development Agency (SMEDAN), Dr Dikko Radda said proper packaging has been the bane of Micro, Small, Medium Enterprises (MSME) training, as such there is the need for them to be trained on how to best fit in as the agreement takes effect. Daily Trust reports that in October similar numbers were trained on the same skills in Aba, Abia state. According to him, the programme was designed to provide entrepreneur skills and export facilitation skills to fill the capacity gap of the existing and potential export ready enterprises. “Despite a reasonable growth story and substantial share in overall exports, MSMEs are often faced with lots of challenges that restrict their entry into foreign markets. We must address these to be able to participate in global and domestic market,” he said. At least 120 Kano based entrepreneurs are trained on export skills to maximally benefit from the new African trade continental Free Trade (AFCTA) agreement. Speaking at the closing ceremony of the training  in Kano,  the Director General of Small and medium enterprises development Agency (SMEDAN), Dr Dikko Radda said proper packaging has been the bane of Micro, Small, Medium Enterprises (MSME) training, as such there is the need for them to be trained on how to best fit in as the agreement takes effect. Daily Trust reports that in October similar numbers were trained on the same skills in Aba, Abia state. According to him, the programme was designed to provide entrepreneur skills and export facilitation skills to fill the capacity gap of the existing and potential export ready enterprises. “Despite a reasonable growth story and substantial share in overall exports, MSMEs are often faced with lots of challenges that restrict their entry into foreign markets. We must address these to be able to participate in global and domestic market,” he said.