Plateau State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Christopher Hassan, on Wednesday said Mr George Daika remains the party’s candidate for Saturday’s Plateau South senatorial by-election. Hassan said this on Wednesday in Jos when he briefed newsmen on the party’s preparations for the Dec. 5, by-election. “We find it mandatory at this moment to put the record straight and clear the air.That there has never been and there is no any subsisting order from any court setting aside the candidature of Mr George Edwards Daika of the PDP,” he said. But a group, the Inspired Southern Zone Youths has alleged that Daika was not eligible to contest for the election, saying the process that produced him as candidate of the party was faulty and questionable. Addressing newsmen in Jos, the Plateau State capital, Angela Barde of the group said as long as elections of the state Executive EXCO  of the PDP that conducted  the primary election was nullify by a court of law ,then  anything done by that exco was equally null and void. She said the congress that produced it as illegal and lacking in merit under the law of natural justice. Plateau State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Christopher Hassan, on Wednesday said Mr George Daika remains the party’s candidate for Saturday’s Plateau South senatorial by-election. Hassan said this on Wednesday in Jos when he briefed newsmen on the party’s preparations for the Dec. 5, by-election. “We find it mandatory at this moment to put the record straight and clear the air.That there has never been and there is no any subsisting order from any court setting aside the candidature of Mr George Edwards Daika of the PDP,” he said. But a group, the Inspired Southern Zone Youths has alleged that Daika was not eligible to contest for the election, saying the process that produced him as candidate of the party was faulty and questionable. Addressing newsmen in Jos, the Plateau State capital, Angela Barde of the group said as long as elections of the state Executive EXCO  of the PDP that conducted  the primary election was nullify by a court of law ,then  anything done by that exco was equally null and void. She said the congress that produced it as illegal and lacking in merit under the law of natural justice.