The Chief Executive Officer of Posh Hauzes, an Abuja-based real estate firm, Hauwa Albarka, has said real estate is “a very difficult business terrain for women” to operate. Speaking at the company’s end of year events and awards night held in Abuja recently, the Posh Hauzes boss said if given the opportunity, women can bring due diligence and details to bear in the construction sector of the economy. Hauwa who was decorated with an award of excellence for running the company, said she and two other directors started the firm three years ago, and have delivered three housing projects for low-income earners. One of them is in Abuja’s Kaura community which was completed in 18 months. Hauwa said the company came into the highly competitive real estate company without a background but was able to build an estate that has been competitive. She acknowledged that 2020 has been very challenging due to COVID-19 but expressed hope that 2021 would be better. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Mr Gabriel Aduda, said the company has achieved a huge success in just three years, beating statistics which showed that 90 per cent of start-ups fail within the first year of operation. The Chief Executive Officer of Posh Hauzes, an Abuja-based real estate firm, Hauwa Albarka, has said real estate is “a very difficult business terrain for women” to operate. Speaking at the company’s end of year events and awards night held in Abuja recently, the Posh Hauzes boss said if given the opportunity, women can bring due diligence and details to bear in the construction sector of the economy. Hauwa who was decorated with an award of excellence for running the company, said she and two other directors started the firm three years ago, and have delivered three housing projects for low-income earners. One of them is in Abuja’s Kaura community which was completed in 18 months. Hauwa said the company came into the highly competitive real estate company without a background but was able to build an estate that has been competitive. She acknowledged that 2020 has been very challenging due to COVID-19 but expressed hope that 2021 would be better. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Mr Gabriel Aduda, said the company has achieved a huge success in just three years, beating statistics which showed that 90 per cent of start-ups fail within the first year of operation.