The National Agricultural Mechanise Cooperative Society (NAMCS) said it plans to empower 40,000 women with skills to lift them out of poverty. The society said the participants will be awarded a CAC certificate, business certificate, NAMCS training certificate and a business plan. National president of the society, Dr. Aliyu Muhammad Waziri said participants will also be provided with a poultry farm where each of them will be required to employ two more people, which will be under the care of NAMCS. “Monday January 4, 2021 has been approved for the commencement of registration for the first quarter of the women nurturing bird for wealth empowerment because we have realised the resilience of Nigerian women having proven to be productive in all areas of endeavours complex with the need to harness and support Nigerian women towards achieving a greater and productive society. He stressed that the idea is to train and empower over 40,000 women out of poverty and empower them with the necessary skills. The National Agricultural Mechanise Cooperative Society (NAMCS) said it plans to empower 40,000 women with skills to lift them out of poverty. The society said the participants will be awarded a CAC certificate, business certificate, NAMCS training certificate and a business plan. National president of the society, Dr. Aliyu Muhammad Waziri said participants will also be provided with a poultry farm where each of them will be required to employ two more people, which will be under the care of NAMCS. “Monday January 4, 2021 has been approved for the commencement of registration for the first quarter of the women nurturing bird for wealth empowerment because we have realised the resilience of Nigerian women having proven to be productive in all areas of endeavours complex with the need to harness and support Nigerian women towards achieving a greater and productive society. He stressed that the idea is to train and empower over 40,000 women out of poverty and empower them with the necessary skills.