Technology drivers of various firms in Nigeria have been recognised at the maiden Chief Information Officer (CIO) awards. The winners of the awards who were said to have distinguished themselves by deepening technology use at their various organisations were selected by a jury of tech experts chaired by the Director of Information Technology and Operations at Access Bank, Mr. Ade Bajomo. Some of the winners of the CIO awards include Okechukwu Iroegbu of Stanbic IBTC, Sina Ayegbusi of GTBank, and Richard Amanfonye of Wema Bank, all in the banking category. The Chief Executive Officer of Edniesal Consulting and Chief organiser of the awards, Mrs. Abiola Olaseinde, said CIOs have overtime been responsible for delivering top-of-the-line innovation and business value within their organisations while also being at the forefront of decision-making and strategic change. Chairman of the Jury, Mr. Ade Bajomo, said the Jury had to look through and scrutinise over 200 entries from CIOs in the country with specific attention to their achievements and project delivery. Technology drivers of various firms in Nigeria have been recognised at the maiden Chief Information Officer (CIO) awards. The winners of the awards who were said to have distinguished themselves by deepening technology use at their various organisations were selected by a jury of tech experts chaired by the Director of Information Technology and Operations at Access Bank, Mr. Ade Bajomo. Some of the winners of the CIO awards include Okechukwu Iroegbu of Stanbic IBTC, Sina Ayegbusi of GTBank, and Richard Amanfonye of Wema Bank, all in the banking category. The Chief Executive Officer of Edniesal Consulting and Chief organiser of the awards, Mrs. Abiola Olaseinde, said CIOs have overtime been responsible for delivering top-of-the-line innovation and business value within their organisations while also being at the forefront of decision-making and strategic change. Chairman of the Jury, Mr. Ade Bajomo, said the Jury had to look through and scrutinise over 200 entries from CIOs in the country with specific attention to their achievements and project delivery.