Ogun State government, on Wednesday, banned all waste cart pushers from operating in the state with immediate effect. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Environment and Chief Executive Officer of the Ogun State Waste Management Authority, Ola Oresanya, disclosed this in a statement in Abeokuta. Oresanya said activities of the cart pushers constitute security risks to the residents of the state. According to him, any waste cart pusher caught operating henceforth in the state will be arrested and their cart crushed. Oresanya said recent security report had indicted them of complicity in crimes across the state. “While operating, our people innocently open their premises and commercial outlets to them for the evacuation of their wastes but unknown to them, these cart pushers who are mostly foreigners collate vital information on how to compromise the security of their premises and pass them to the men of the underworld and sometimes join them to rob and terrorise our people, he said. The governor’s aide said apart from their security risk, the cart pushers “deface the aesthetic beauty of the state by their indiscriminate dumping of refuse on medians and unauthorised places,” saying their exit is good riddance to bad rubbish. Oresanya, therefore, called on the residents of the state to patronise Waste PSP in the area for prompt, effective and structured service. He added that the new waste management economic programmes of waste reduction, waste use, and waste recycling of the state government “are already providing employment opportunities for the youths and women across the state.”  Ogun State government, on Wednesday, banned all waste cart pushers from operating in the state with immediate effect. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Environment and Chief Executive Officer of the Ogun State Waste Management Authority, Ola Oresanya, disclosed this in a statement in Abeokuta. Oresanya said activities of the cart pushers constitute security risks to the residents of the state. According to him, any waste cart pusher caught operating henceforth in the state will be arrested and their cart crushed. Oresanya said recent security report had indicted them of complicity in crimes across the state. “While operating, our people innocently open their premises and commercial outlets to them for the evacuation of their wastes but unknown to them, these cart pushers who are mostly foreigners collate vital information on how to compromise the security of their premises and pass them to the men of the underworld and sometimes join them to rob and terrorise our people, he said. The governor’s aide said apart from their security risk, the cart pushers “deface the aesthetic beauty of the state by their indiscriminate dumping of refuse on medians and unauthorised places,” saying their exit is good riddance to bad rubbish. Oresanya, therefore, called on the residents of the state to patronise Waste PSP in the area for prompt, effective and structured service. He added that the new waste management economic programmes of waste reduction, waste use, and waste recycling of the state government “are already providing employment opportunities for the youths and women across the state.” 