A Cisco certified instructor, Austine Ijioma, has highlighted some skills required of successful entrepreneurs. Ijioma, at a training session on how to become successful entrepreneurs organised by MTN Nigeria in partnership with Cisco, divided the skills into soft and hard skills. As part of efforts to increase the contributions of youth entrepreneurs in Nigeria to economic growth, MTN Nigeria hosted young business owners to a training session in partnership with Cisco for entrepreneurs from Abia, Akwa Ibom and Kaduna states. Cisco is an American multinational technology conglomerate that develops, manufactures and sells networking hardware, software, telecommunications equipment and other high-technology services and products. According to Ijioma, the hard skills include technical skills such as web development, networking, database administration, software engineering, and cyber-security; while the soft skills include leadership, teamwork, creativity, adaptability and work ethic. Focusing on soft skills, Ijioma described leadership as the action of leading a group of people or an organisation, noting that necessary leadership skills that should be acquired include strategic thinking, planning and delivery, change management and innovation, persuasion and influencing, and decision-making. He stated that teamwork is essential, noting that people who are able to collaborate with others to resolve issues quickly and effectively are usually highly valued. Ijioma further highlighted other related problem-solving skills including creativity, critical thinking, risk management, research, decision-making and resourcefulness.  A Cisco certified instructor, Austine Ijioma, has highlighted some skills required of successful entrepreneurs. Ijioma, at a training session on how to become successful entrepreneurs organised by MTN Nigeria in partnership with Cisco, divided the skills into soft and hard skills. As part of efforts to increase the contributions of youth entrepreneurs in Nigeria to economic growth, MTN Nigeria hosted young business owners to a training session in partnership with Cisco for entrepreneurs from Abia, Akwa Ibom and Kaduna states. Cisco is an American multinational technology conglomerate that develops, manufactures and sells networking hardware, software, telecommunications equipment and other high-technology services and products. According to Ijioma, the hard skills include technical skills such as web development, networking, database administration, software engineering, and cyber-security; while the soft skills include leadership, teamwork, creativity, adaptability and work ethic. Focusing on soft skills, Ijioma described leadership as the action of leading a group of people or an organisation, noting that necessary leadership skills that should be acquired include strategic thinking, planning and delivery, change management and innovation, persuasion and influencing, and decision-making. He stated that teamwork is essential, noting that people who are able to collaborate with others to resolve issues quickly and effectively are usually highly valued. Ijioma further highlighted other related problem-solving skills including creativity, critical thinking, risk management, research, decision-making and resourcefulness. 