Managing Director of the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Chief George Moghalu, has said the South-East geo-political zone must work hard to clinch the presidency. Moghalu, who said this in Nnewi, Anambra State, on Saturday while interacting with newsmen, said the need to work hard had become imperative because power would not be given. According to him, since it is a democratic dispensation where number matters, there is the need for Ndigbo to sit down and get organised for the Igbo presidency project. “Every zone wants to have the presidency. For me, I will like the Nigerian president to come from Nnewi because of the positive impact it will have on the community. “But the truth is that we are not talking about the president of Igbo but the president of Nigeria who will be an Igbo man. If we fully realise the enormity of the project, we have to put our house in order so that we can constructively engage people from other zones to get the needed number and support. “There are two political platforms with which one can prosecute the presidency in the Nigeria of today, that is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). What I expect us to do is to work hard towards making Igbo persons win the presidential primaries of the two political parties so that it can be a win-win situation for us. All hands must be on the deck to actualise the Igbo presidency project,” he said. At the occasion, Moghalu also said he would run for Anambra State governorship.  Managing Director of the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Chief George Moghalu, has said the South-East geo-political zone must work hard to clinch the presidency. Moghalu, who said this in Nnewi, Anambra State, on Saturday while interacting with newsmen, said the need to work hard had become imperative because power would not be given. According to him, since it is a democratic dispensation where number matters, there is the need for Ndigbo to sit down and get organised for the Igbo presidency project. “Every zone wants to have the presidency. For me, I will like the Nigerian president to come from Nnewi because of the positive impact it will have on the community. “But the truth is that we are not talking about the president of Igbo but the president of Nigeria who will be an Igbo man. If we fully realise the enormity of the project, we have to put our house in order so that we can constructively engage people from other zones to get the needed number and support. “There are two political platforms with which one can prosecute the presidency in the Nigeria of today, that is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). What I expect us to do is to work hard towards making Igbo persons win the presidential primaries of the two political parties so that it can be a win-win situation for us. All hands must be on the deck to actualise the Igbo presidency project,” he said. At the occasion, Moghalu also said he would run for Anambra State governorship. 