President Muhammadu Buhari will today commission the Integrated Gas Handling Facility (IGHF) and the Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) storage and dispensing unit in Ologbo, Edo State. The commissioning will be done by President Buhari virtually from the presidential villa while some other top officials will be in Ologbo physically to witness it. Speaking to journalists after the pre-commissioning tour of the facilities at Ologbo yesterday, the Managing Director of Nigerian Petroleum Development Company Ltd (NPDC), a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Mr Mansur Sambo, said the IGHF has the capacity to produce 30 metric tonnes of gas per day and the storage tanks can store up to 42,000 metric tonnes of gas. Sambo said the NPDC would use the Ologbo-based IGHF to accomplish its domestic gas supply obligation to the country and getting more value from gas molecules that could have been flared. “The IGHF will help NPDC meet its domestic supply obligation (DSO) from the Oredo field and in the process, ensure complete gas flare-out from there’’, he said. The MD revealed that the NPDC gas facility would process 200 standard cubic per day (mmscfd) wasted or flared gas to wealth for about 25 years. Sambo said the key value drivers for the gas utilisation projects were simply compliance with the government’s gas flare-out objectives and the presidential directives to supply lean gas to power Generation Companies (GenCos) and the domestic market. The IGHF became a waste-to-wealth facility converting gas that would have been flared to valuable lean gas from its Ologbo town base, he said. He said the facility will dispense about 330 tonnes of LPG daily which is about 16 LPG trucks or 20 tonnes, and 345 tonnes or 17 trucks of propane for the domestic gas market. NDPC said it supplies 45 million mmscfd of lean gas to the 500 megawatts (MW) Ihovbor power GenCo in Benin from its oil asset – Oil Mining Lease (OML) 111, and has expanded to include supply of another 55mmscfd of lean gas to the domestic market through the Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System (ELPS). President Muhammadu Buhari will today commission the Integrated Gas Handling Facility (IGHF) and the Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) storage and dispensing unit in Ologbo, Edo State. The commissioning will be done by President Buhari virtually from the presidential villa while some other top officials will be in Ologbo physically to witness it. Speaking to journalists after the pre-commissioning tour of the facilities at Ologbo yesterday, the Managing Director of Nigerian Petroleum Development Company Ltd (NPDC), a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Mr Mansur Sambo, said the IGHF has the capacity to produce 30 metric tonnes of gas per day and the storage tanks can store up to 42,000 metric tonnes of gas. Sambo said the NPDC would use the Ologbo-based IGHF to accomplish its domestic gas supply obligation to the country and getting more value from gas molecules that could have been flared. “The IGHF will help NPDC meet its domestic supply obligation (DSO) from the Oredo field and in the process, ensure complete gas flare-out from there’’, he said. The MD revealed that the NPDC gas facility would process 200 standard cubic per day (mmscfd) wasted or flared gas to wealth for about 25 years. Sambo said the key value drivers for the gas utilisation projects were simply compliance with the government’s gas flare-out objectives and the presidential directives to supply lean gas to power Generation Companies (GenCos) and the domestic market. The IGHF became a waste-to-wealth facility converting gas that would have been flared to valuable lean gas from its Ologbo town base, he said. He said the facility will dispense about 330 tonnes of LPG daily which is about 16 LPG trucks or 20 tonnes, and 345 tonnes or 17 trucks of propane for the domestic gas market. NDPC said it supplies 45 million mmscfd of lean gas to the 500 megawatts (MW) Ihovbor power GenCo in Benin from its oil asset – Oil Mining Lease (OML) 111, and has expanded to include supply of another 55mmscfd of lean gas to the domestic market through the Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System (ELPS).