The Non-NWC members of the APC National Executive Committee (NEC) and the APC Professionals Forum have asked the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee to enthrone internal democracy and ensure fairness and justice in the discharge of its assignment. In a letter dated December 14, 2020, and addressed to Governor Buni, the non-NWC NEC members also urged the caretaker committee to give priority to a reward system. The letter, signed by its chairman, Abubakar Sadiq Saadu and Secretary, David Okumba, said aggressive membership drive, internal democracy and reward system for party members would help to “achieve the collective desire for a more viable and prosperous APC.” Similarly, the National Coordinator of the APC Professionals Forum, Akeem Akintayo, who addressed a press conference yesterday in Abuja, enjoined the party leadership to continue to ensure fairness and equity in managing the various interest groups and members as it prepared for politics of 2023. Akintayo also called on the party leadership to ensure fairness and transparency in the forthcoming members’ registration/revalidation exercise starting in January 2021.  The Non-NWC members of the APC National Executive Committee (NEC) and the APC Professionals Forum have asked the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee to enthrone internal democracy and ensure fairness and justice in the discharge of its assignment. In a letter dated December 14, 2020, and addressed to Governor Buni, the non-NWC NEC members also urged the caretaker committee to give priority to a reward system. The letter, signed by its chairman, Abubakar Sadiq Saadu and Secretary, David Okumba, said aggressive membership drive, internal democracy and reward system for party members would help to “achieve the collective desire for a more viable and prosperous APC.” Similarly, the National Coordinator of the APC Professionals Forum, Akeem Akintayo, who addressed a press conference yesterday in Abuja, enjoined the party leadership to continue to ensure fairness and equity in managing the various interest groups and members as it prepared for politics of 2023. Akintayo also called on the party leadership to ensure fairness and transparency in the forthcoming members’ registration/revalidation exercise starting in January 2021. 