Kaduna State has topped for the second year on the 2019 Institute for Chartered Accountant (ICAN) Accountability Index. It ranks the Federal and state government on policy based fiscal strategy and budgeting; budget credibility, control in budget execution, accounting and reporting. The worst performer in terms of transparency was Edo state, where assessors had access to only 3 percent of the required information in comparison to Kaduna state where assessor had access to 87 percent of required information. The entire country showed a low level of transparency. However, this year’s report showed a 7 percent improvement over last year’s assessment. 21 out of the 37 governments showed growth, while 16 had a decline in the level of information availability. Speaking at the Public presentation of the report in Lagos recently, the 56th president of the Institute, Dame Onome Joy Adewuyi said the initiative by the Institute was born out of its commitment to serving the public interest in promoting accountability, transparency, accuracy and integrity in the Nigerian economy. Adewuwi said: “We are aware that some governments in the country have not yet fully adopted global best practices in terms of transparency and making relevant financial information publicly available. “Hence, the ICAN-AI field Assessors had to physically visit as many as 15 government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to obtain information.” Kaduna State has topped for the second year on the 2019 Institute for Chartered Accountant (ICAN) Accountability Index. It ranks the Federal and state government on policy based fiscal strategy and budgeting; budget credibility, control in budget execution, accounting and reporting. The worst performer in terms of transparency was Edo state, where assessors had access to only 3 percent of the required information in comparison to Kaduna state where assessor had access to 87 percent of required information. The entire country showed a low level of transparency. However, this year’s report showed a 7 percent improvement over last year’s assessment. 21 out of the 37 governments showed growth, while 16 had a decline in the level of information availability. Speaking at the Public presentation of the report in Lagos recently, the 56th president of the Institute, Dame Onome Joy Adewuyi said the initiative by the Institute was born out of its commitment to serving the public interest in promoting accountability, transparency, accuracy and integrity in the Nigerian economy. Adewuwi said: “We are aware that some governments in the country have not yet fully adopted global best practices in terms of transparency and making relevant financial information publicly available. “Hence, the ICAN-AI field Assessors had to physically visit as many as 15 government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to obtain information.”