The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has claimed the All Progressives Congress (APC) “abandoned” its much hyped membership drive because Nigerians did not show any interest in the exercise following the alleged failure of the APC and President Muhammadu Buhari. The opposition party said the APC had become defunct and can no longer engage in legitimate political activities given the collapse of its structures across the federation. The emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the APC held at the presidential villa in Abuja, on Tuesday, dissolved the ward, local government, state and zonal executives of the party and ordered for caretaker committees. The party also, on Thursday, announced it was shifting the date of its new membership registration and revalidation exercise earlier slated to commence this Saturday, to January, 2021. The APC’s Caretaker Committee had said: “Because of several factors however, including the fast-approaching Christmas and End of Year celebrations; as well as the interest of our Christian members; and the objective of ensuring maximum participation, the CECPC has decided to shift the date of the Exercise to the second week of January 2021.” But the PDP, in a statement on Friday, by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, claimed that the APC had; “already gone down in history as a jinxed party that is synonymous to failure, deceit, falsehood, lies, lawlessness, treasury looting, poverty and hardship, sympathy for terrorists and bandits, mortgaging of our national sovereignty, among other vices, which makes it impossible for any well-meaning Nigerian to seek to identify with it.” The party added that: “Given their impunity and arrogance, nobody wants to join the APC which has become a derelict pirate ship, stranded and doomed in rough waters and only waiting for its final decent into political abyss. “By abandoning the membership drive, the Governor Bala Mai Buni-led illegal APC national caretaker committee has come to its wits end, having realized that Nigerians, and even their members do not have confidence in his committee or the fizzling party,” the PDP added. But reacting, the APC’s Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena said: “PDP’s leadership has gone senile. Our democracy is in desperate need of opposition.” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has claimed the All Progressives Congress (APC) “abandoned” its much hyped membership drive because Nigerians did not show any interest in the exercise following the alleged failure of the APC and President Muhammadu Buhari. The opposition party said the APC had become defunct and can no longer engage in legitimate political activities given the collapse of its structures across the federation. The emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the APC held at the presidential villa in Abuja, on Tuesday, dissolved the ward, local government, state and zonal executives of the party and ordered for caretaker committees. The party also, on Thursday, announced it was shifting the date of its new membership registration and revalidation exercise earlier slated to commence this Saturday, to January, 2021. The APC’s Caretaker Committee had said: “Because of several factors however, including the fast-approaching Christmas and End of Year celebrations; as well as the interest of our Christian members; and the objective of ensuring maximum participation, the CECPC has decided to shift the date of the Exercise to the second week of January 2021.” But the PDP, in a statement on Friday, by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, claimed that the APC had; “already gone down in history as a jinxed party that is synonymous to failure, deceit, falsehood, lies, lawlessness, treasury looting, poverty and hardship, sympathy for terrorists and bandits, mortgaging of our national sovereignty, among other vices, which makes it impossible for any well-meaning Nigerian to seek to identify with it.” The party added that: “Given their impunity and arrogance, nobody wants to join the APC which has become a derelict pirate ship, stranded and doomed in rough waters and only waiting for its final decent into political abyss. “By abandoning the membership drive, the Governor Bala Mai Buni-led illegal APC national caretaker committee has come to its wits end, having realized that Nigerians, and even their members do not have confidence in his committee or the fizzling party,” the PDP added. But reacting, the APC’s Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena said: “PDP’s leadership has gone senile. Our democracy is in desperate need of opposition.”