The Ogun State government, in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO), Federal Ministry of Health and Resolve To Save Lives (RTSL), has launched the National Hypertension Control Initiative (NHCI) in the state. The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, during the official launch of NHCI at the Primary Health Centre (PHC), Osiele, in Odeda Local Government Area, described the prevalence rate of hypertension in the state as alarming, saying it was of urgent concern to government at all levels. Dr. Coker further said heart diseases, one of which is hypertension, were responsible for 11 per cent of deaths in 2018, adding that there was need for stakeholders to partner with government to fashion out effective healthcare solutions and programmes that would reduce the mortality rate of heart diseases. She said, “This initiative has a lot of benefits for us in the health sector, and by extension, the people of our state. It will improve early diagnosis and management of hypertension at PHCs.” The Representative of the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Health, Dr. U.M Ene-bong, said NHCI was being piloted in Ogun and Kano states, disclosing that the programme would be scaled up to other states. The Ogun State government, in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO), Federal Ministry of Health and Resolve To Save Lives (RTSL), has launched the National Hypertension Control Initiative (NHCI) in the state. The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, during the official launch of NHCI at the Primary Health Centre (PHC), Osiele, in Odeda Local Government Area, described the prevalence rate of hypertension in the state as alarming, saying it was of urgent concern to government at all levels. Dr. Coker further said heart diseases, one of which is hypertension, were responsible for 11 per cent of deaths in 2018, adding that there was need for stakeholders to partner with government to fashion out effective healthcare solutions and programmes that would reduce the mortality rate of heart diseases. She said, “This initiative has a lot of benefits for us in the health sector, and by extension, the people of our state. It will improve early diagnosis and management of hypertension at PHCs.” The Representative of the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Health, Dr. U.M Ene-bong, said NHCI was being piloted in Ogun and Kano states, disclosing that the programme would be scaled up to other states.