The unrest in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano State may be far from over as members loyal to Ambassador Aminu Wali has elected new executive members for the party, three days after the national headquarter-backed caretaker committee elected new executives for the party. Shehu Wada Sagagi had emerged on Monday as the state chairman of the party in a congress organised at the party’s secretariat by the Danladi Umar Abdulhameed-led caretaker committee with Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso in attendance. But on Thursday, the Wali faction gathered at the Kano Foundation House with delegates reportedly from the 448 wards and 44 local government areas of the state where Muhammin Bako Lamido, a former PDP chairman for Dala LGA, emerged as the state’s party chairman. Speaking to journalists, Lamido said: “My position before was chapter Chairman in Dala Local Government, then we have a forum of LG Chairmen. And by our constitution, we are automatically members of the excos. “When we had a vacuum in the state leadership, we took over as caretaker excos. But, this is the first time we are going to hold an election. “Even before Kwankwaso re-joined PDP, we have been duly elected leaders of the party. “All of us here are leaders. He met us here in the party and there is no way you can bypass us to implement something. “Then who authorised them to execute something despite not having party excos at LG level? “Holding that election is the responsibility of LG excos which they (Kwankwasiyya Movement) have. “This is what we have done which is legally recognised.” Meanwhile, Lamido said his executive has expelled Senator Kwankwaso from the party for alleged gross violation of the party’s constitution. The main faction of the party has not yet reacted to Mr Lamido’s claims. The unrest in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano State may be far from over as members loyal to Ambassador Aminu Wali has elected new executive members for the party, three days after the national headquarter-backed caretaker committee elected new executives for the party. Shehu Wada Sagagi had emerged on Monday as the state chairman of the party in a congress organised at the party’s secretariat by the Danladi Umar Abdulhameed-led caretaker committee with Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso in attendance. But on Thursday, the Wali faction gathered at the Kano Foundation House with delegates reportedly from the 448 wards and 44 local government areas of the state where Muhammin Bako Lamido, a former PDP chairman for Dala LGA, emerged as the state’s party chairman. Speaking to journalists, Lamido said: “My position before was chapter Chairman in Dala Local Government, then we have a forum of LG Chairmen. And by our constitution, we are automatically members of the excos. “When we had a vacuum in the state leadership, we took over as caretaker excos. But, this is the first time we are going to hold an election. “Even before Kwankwaso re-joined PDP, we have been duly elected leaders of the party. “All of us here are leaders. He met us here in the party and there is no way you can bypass us to implement something. “Then who authorised them to execute something despite not having party excos at LG level? “Holding that election is the responsibility of LG excos which they (Kwankwasiyya Movement) have. “This is what we have done which is legally recognised.” Meanwhile, Lamido said his executive has expelled Senator Kwankwaso from the party for alleged gross violation of the party’s constitution. The main faction of the party has not yet reacted to Mr Lamido’s claims.