A 12-year-old girl, Fatima Abubakar, of Anglo Jos, in Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State, escaped from her abductors on Monday. Daily Trust learnt that trouble started at about 02:00pm when the victim returned from school and left home to help her father in his shop close to their house. The victim who spoke to our correspondent explained that, “When I returned home from school, I went to help my father sell goods in his shop. Our house is close to the shop. On my way to the shop, a woman called me and asked me to help her buy eggs from a nearby house. On my way to buy the eggs, a man held me, covered my face and put me in a car. ‘‘Thereafter, I found myself in an open area where two women asked me to follow a route and that they were coming. I then started walking. Along the way, I saw a group of women and asked them where I was and they told me that it was Kano. They asked what happened and I narrated everything to them. I told them I live in Jos. ‘‘They then took me to Unguwauku motorpark, where I boarded a taxi to Jos.” The driver of the taxi, Buhari Aliyu, told journalists in Jos that on his way, a woman who went to the park claiming to have lost her daughter collected his phone number and called him to drop the girl in Anguwan Bawa Town, along Kano-Jos Road, that somebody would take her back to Kano, but that he refused and told the woman to come to Jos, adding that he was asked to hand over the girl to the Chairman of the National Union of Road transport Workers in (NURTW) in Jos; which he said he did. The girl was later taken to Unity FM, Jos, where an announcement was made and she was eventually handed over to her parents. The father of the girl, Abubakar Muhammad, thanked God for the return of his daughter and called on parents to be vigilant and take proper care of their children. A 12-year-old girl, Fatima Abubakar, of Anglo Jos, in Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State, escaped from her abductors on Monday. Daily Trust learnt that trouble started at about 02:00pm when the victim returned from school and left home to help her father in his shop close to their house. The victim who spoke to our correspondent explained that, “When I returned home from school, I went to help my father sell goods in his shop. Our house is close to the shop. On my way to the shop, a woman called me and asked me to help her buy eggs from a nearby house. On my way to buy the eggs, a man held me, covered my face and put me in a car. ‘‘Thereafter, I found myself in an open area where two women asked me to follow a route and that they were coming. I then started walking. Along the way, I saw a group of women and asked them where I was and they told me that it was Kano. They asked what happened and I narrated everything to them. I told them I live in Jos. ‘‘They then took me to Unguwauku motorpark, where I boarded a taxi to Jos.” The driver of the taxi, Buhari Aliyu, told journalists in Jos that on his way, a woman who went to the park claiming to have lost her daughter collected his phone number and called him to drop the girl in Anguwan Bawa Town, along Kano-Jos Road, that somebody would take her back to Kano, but that he refused and told the woman to come to Jos, adding that he was asked to hand over the girl to the Chairman of the National Union of Road transport Workers in (NURTW) in Jos; which he said he did. The girl was later taken to Unity FM, Jos, where an announcement was made and she was eventually handed over to her parents. The father of the girl, Abubakar Muhammad, thanked God for the return of his daughter and called on parents to be vigilant and take proper care of their children.