The Chairman/CEO, Nigeria in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, has condemned in strong terms the killing of Mr George Nkencho, a 27-year-old Nigerian in Ireland. She also called for a full, thorough and fair investigation into the matter. In a statement by the Head of Media and Public Relations, NIDCOM, Abdul-Rahman Balogun, she described the killing of the young Nigerian by a Police officer as callous and wicked. Dabiri-Erewa appealed to the enraged Nigerian community in Ireland to exercise patience, and await the outcome of investigation into the unfortunate incident. She condoled with the family of Nkencho and the Nigerian community in Ireland, and prayed God to give the family and friends the fortitude to bear the irreplaceable loss. Already, the African Advocacy Network Ireland (AANI) has expressed shock to learn about the callous shooting dead of George Nkencho on Wednesday, December 30. The group said the circumstances surrounding the killing of a mentally challenged young man has enraged the African community and demanded a full independent public inquiry. The Chairman/CEO, Nigeria in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, has condemned in strong terms the killing of Mr George Nkencho, a 27-year-old Nigerian in Ireland. She also called for a full, thorough and fair investigation into the matter. In a statement by the Head of Media and Public Relations, NIDCOM, Abdul-Rahman Balogun, she described the killing of the young Nigerian by a Police officer as callous and wicked. Dabiri-Erewa appealed to the enraged Nigerian community in Ireland to exercise patience, and await the outcome of investigation into the unfortunate incident. She condoled with the family of Nkencho and the Nigerian community in Ireland, and prayed God to give the family and friends the fortitude to bear the irreplaceable loss. Already, the African Advocacy Network Ireland (AANI) has expressed shock to learn about the callous shooting dead of George Nkencho on Wednesday, December 30. The group said the circumstances surrounding the killing of a mentally challenged young man has enraged the African community and demanded a full independent public inquiry.