The battle for the control of the South-West PDP by Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State and former Governor Ayo Fayose of Ekiti State has been fueling the crisis in Lagos PDP, it has been learnt. Stakeholders of the party in the state had pitched their tents with Makinde and Fayose thereby polarizing the party. The party had last Friday suspended the state chairman, Deji Doherty, over alleged financial misappropriation and failure to carry the stakeholders along. The chairman however dismissed the suspension. Our correspondent reports that the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party may soon intervene in the crisis. Daily Trust learnt that trouble started for the embattled chairman when he was at a forum in Lagos where Fayose called for the retirement of elders in the party, including the former Deputy National Chairman, Chief Olabode George. Sources said chieftains of the party loyal to George were exasperated that Doherty could sit at a forum where Fayose was denigrating leaders of the party. This explains why the party spokesman Taofiq Gani at the time issued a statement describing Fayose as persona non-grata and asking him to steer clear of the party’s affairs. While Doherty and a few of his exco members are pitching tent with Fayose, majority of the PDP chieftains are with Bode George and by extension Governor Makinde in a bid to control the South-West PDP. Some members loyal to Fayose recently announced the suspension of the caretaker committee chairman, Dayo Olugbenro, loyal to Makinde. A chieftain of the party who spoke with our correspondent said, “The national leadership of the party has a tough work to do in reconciling the South-West PDP. I expect the Reconciliation Committee of the PDP led by the former Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki, to look at the issue holistically without taking sides.” Yesterday, PDP in Lagos State declared its 100% support for what it called “the outstanding leadership qualities of Governor Seyi Makinde in the South-West.” The state publicity secretary, Taofiq Gani, in a statement noted that the governor had endeared himself to many for his “deference and respect for political leaders, elders and royal institutions. “You can see his total respect for Chief Obasanjo, Bode George, Ladoja, Ooni, Olubadan, Alaafin, to mention a few. He is also a manifestly sincerely selfless, contented and progressive role model for leadership.” The party stated that Makinde is competent to lead PDP renaissance in the South-West zone, adding that his leadership is worthy of emulation.  The battle for the control of the South-West PDP by Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State and former Governor Ayo Fayose of Ekiti State has been fueling the crisis in Lagos PDP, it has been learnt. Stakeholders of the party in the state had pitched their tents with Makinde and Fayose thereby polarizing the party. The party had last Friday suspended the state chairman, Deji Doherty, over alleged financial misappropriation and failure to carry the stakeholders along. The chairman however dismissed the suspension. Our correspondent reports that the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party may soon intervene in the crisis. Daily Trust learnt that trouble started for the embattled chairman when he was at a forum in Lagos where Fayose called for the retirement of elders in the party, including the former Deputy National Chairman, Chief Olabode George. Sources said chieftains of the party loyal to George were exasperated that Doherty could sit at a forum where Fayose was denigrating leaders of the party. This explains why the party spokesman Taofiq Gani at the time issued a statement describing Fayose as persona non-grata and asking him to steer clear of the party’s affairs. While Doherty and a few of his exco members are pitching tent with Fayose, majority of the PDP chieftains are with Bode George and by extension Governor Makinde in a bid to control the South-West PDP. Some members loyal to Fayose recently announced the suspension of the caretaker committee chairman, Dayo Olugbenro, loyal to Makinde. A chieftain of the party who spoke with our correspondent said, “The national leadership of the party has a tough work to do in reconciling the South-West PDP. I expect the Reconciliation Committee of the PDP led by the former Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki, to look at the issue holistically without taking sides.” Yesterday, PDP in Lagos State declared its 100% support for what it called “the outstanding leadership qualities of Governor Seyi Makinde in the South-West.” The state publicity secretary, Taofiq Gani, in a statement noted that the governor had endeared himself to many for his “deference and respect for political leaders, elders and royal institutions. “You can see his total respect for Chief Obasanjo, Bode George, Ladoja, Ooni, Olubadan, Alaafin, to mention a few. He is also a manifestly sincerely selfless, contented and progressive role model for leadership.” The party stated that Makinde is competent to lead PDP renaissance in the South-West zone, adding that his leadership is worthy of emulation. 