The Managing Director/CEO, Leadway Assurance, Mr. Tunde Hassan-Odukale, has promised to invest more in retooling the skills of staff and providing a conducive work environment for them to thrive. He made the commitment while reacting to Leadway Assurance’s award as one of Nigeria’s most valuable and employee-sensitive organisations. The insurance company was crowned as a winner in the Silver category at the 2020 edition of the Best Workplaces Award Ceremony organised by the influential Great Place to Work Institute (GPTW). “I would like to thank the staff at Leadway for their contributions to making Leadway a great place to work. As we celebrate this unique award, it is my hope and prayer that we will all double our resolve and commitment to making our organisation not just the best place to work, but the pride of the Nigerian employment market.” The Great Place to Work awards ceremony was instituted in Nigeria in 2012 by the Great Place to Work Institute, a global research and consulting firm best known for producing the Fortune 100 Best Companies list in the United States and similar lists in 45 other countries. The Human Resources Director, Leadway Assurance, Kunbi Adeoti, said the award was a “testament to the company’s dedicated pursuit of excellence in the management of our greatest asset-our people.” The Managing Director/CEO, Leadway Assurance, Mr. Tunde Hassan-Odukale, has promised to invest more in retooling the skills of staff and providing a conducive work environment for them to thrive. He made the commitment while reacting to Leadway Assurance’s award as one of Nigeria’s most valuable and employee-sensitive organisations. The insurance company was crowned as a winner in the Silver category at the 2020 edition of the Best Workplaces Award Ceremony organised by the influential Great Place to Work Institute (GPTW). “I would like to thank the staff at Leadway for their contributions to making Leadway a great place to work. As we celebrate this unique award, it is my hope and prayer that we will all double our resolve and commitment to making our organisation not just the best place to work, but the pride of the Nigerian employment market.” The Great Place to Work awards ceremony was instituted in Nigeria in 2012 by the Great Place to Work Institute, a global research and consulting firm best known for producing the Fortune 100 Best Companies list in the United States and similar lists in 45 other countries. The Human Resources Director, Leadway Assurance, Kunbi Adeoti, said the award was a “testament to the company’s dedicated pursuit of excellence in the management of our greatest asset-our people.”