The National Chairman of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince  Uche Secondus, has said that “Nigerians have been thrown into a dark atmosphere” because President Muhammadu Buhari and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) have “failed the country woefully”. Secondus, who said this yesterday in Bauchi, chided the APC-led administration for being insensitive to the challenges facing the country particularly the issue of insecurity. He asked President Buhari to declare a state of emergency on security in Nigeria. “Today is a day we never looked up to, it is a moment of grief, pain and sorrow in our dear country. You know that Nigeria is currently undergoing serious distress and now in Bauchi, the Governor is putting smiles on the faces of the people by embarking on a massive transformation of the state capital and other cities. “All we are saying is that Buhari should bring back our boys, enough of wanton killing of innocent people across the country, nowhere is secured now, the government must rise up to its constitutional function of protecting life and property,” he said during an official visit to flag off road construction in Bauchi. The National Chairman of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince  Uche Secondus, has said that “Nigerians have been thrown into a dark atmosphere” because President Muhammadu Buhari and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) have “failed the country woefully”. Secondus, who said this yesterday in Bauchi, chided the APC-led administration for being insensitive to the challenges facing the country particularly the issue of insecurity. He asked President Buhari to declare a state of emergency on security in Nigeria. “Today is a day we never looked up to, it is a moment of grief, pain and sorrow in our dear country. You know that Nigeria is currently undergoing serious distress and now in Bauchi, the Governor is putting smiles on the faces of the people by embarking on a massive transformation of the state capital and other cities. “All we are saying is that Buhari should bring back our boys, enough of wanton killing of innocent people across the country, nowhere is secured now, the government must rise up to its constitutional function of protecting life and property,” he said during an official visit to flag off road construction in Bauchi.