The Director General (DG), Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Dr. Dikko Umar Radda, has sensitized operators in the transport sector in Katsina on how to benefit from the survival fund scheme. Dr Radda, who addressed over 60 representatives of transport worker associations, charged them to educate their members across the state in order to adequately fill the slots allocated to them. “We are here to launch the transport segment of the fund and we are launching it throughout the federation. But what we did here today is the sensitization of the transport workers’ associations including Keke NAPEP, Okada riders, taxi drivers as well as cart pushers,” he said. Dr Radda, said the sensitization was to ensure transparency in the distribution of the scheme and to ensure that the targeted beneficiaries were aware of the scheme and the requirements they needed to fulfil to be able to benefit. “The only requirements are to be a Nigerian, to be a member of these associations and to have a bank account and BVN number,” he said. He said 4,500 members of those unions would benefit from the sector in Katsina and all other states of the federation with the exception of Kano, Abia and Lagos states who were allotted higher numbers due to the population of such operators. The Director General (DG), Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Dr. Dikko Umar Radda, has sensitized operators in the transport sector in Katsina on how to benefit from the survival fund scheme. Dr Radda, who addressed over 60 representatives of transport worker associations, charged them to educate their members across the state in order to adequately fill the slots allocated to them. “We are here to launch the transport segment of the fund and we are launching it throughout the federation. But what we did here today is the sensitization of the transport workers’ associations including Keke NAPEP, Okada riders, taxi drivers as well as cart pushers,” he said. Dr Radda, said the sensitization was to ensure transparency in the distribution of the scheme and to ensure that the targeted beneficiaries were aware of the scheme and the requirements they needed to fulfil to be able to benefit. “The only requirements are to be a Nigerian, to be a member of these associations and to have a bank account and BVN number,” he said. He said 4,500 members of those unions would benefit from the sector in Katsina and all other states of the federation with the exception of Kano, Abia and Lagos states who were allotted higher numbers due to the population of such operators.