The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) on Tuesday vowed to sanction Bonded Terminals involved in illegal operations in Lagos. It said it has discovered that some of the bonded terminals, particularly, those around the Tin Can Island Port in Lagos were involved in activities which were not licensed by the authority. It said those found culpable would now be shut down in line with the rules of engagement. The Tin Can Island Port Traffic Manager, Mr Peter Abiri, told newsmen on Tuesday that many of the terminals were being used to offload (stripping) containers that have exited the port. This is in response to cries by licensed Customs Agents at the port, that the activities of these bonded terminals were causing traffic gridlock along the Tin Can Port corridor, especially as all the terminals now share a single access. Abiri said suspending the discharge of containers also known as “stripping” operations at the terminals would help clear the access roads of articulated trucks hindering the free flow of traffic.  The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) on Tuesday vowed to sanction Bonded Terminals involved in illegal operations in Lagos. It said it has discovered that some of the bonded terminals, particularly, those around the Tin Can Island Port in Lagos were involved in activities which were not licensed by the authority. It said those found culpable would now be shut down in line with the rules of engagement. The Tin Can Island Port Traffic Manager, Mr Peter Abiri, told newsmen on Tuesday that many of the terminals were being used to offload (stripping) containers that have exited the port. This is in response to cries by licensed Customs Agents at the port, that the activities of these bonded terminals were causing traffic gridlock along the Tin Can Port corridor, especially as all the terminals now share a single access. Abiri said suspending the discharge of containers also known as “stripping” operations at the terminals would help clear the access roads of articulated trucks hindering the free flow of traffic. 