The Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman, has inspected the National Control Centre in Osogbo, in Osun State just as he lauded the multiple peak energy record on the national grid this year. The NCC is the master-point for the coordination of all energy generation and transmission activity in Nigeria, being operated by the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). Engr. Mamman who visited the facility on Monday said: “It gives me great pleasure to be here in person on my first visit to the National Control Centre (NCC), Osogbo. Suffice to acknowledge the steady improvement we have made in the last couple of months, as accentuated by the attainment of an all-time peak generation of 5,520.40 megawatts (MW) and maximum daily energy of 115,067.78 megawatts hour (MWH) recorded on 30th October, 2020, and 11th December, 2020 respectively.” The minister also said incidents of grid disturbances and system collapses have reduced considerably, resulting in a regime of relative power supply stability due to entrenched synergy within the sector. The acting General Manager of NCC – TCN, Engr. Balarabe Abdullahi, said NCC coordinates power transmission up to the Republics of Niger, Togo and Benin, noting that key improvements have been recorded due to the efforts of the minister and the acting Managing Director of TCN, Engr. Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz. “We sustained the Grid operations for (five months, 29 days) at least six months without grid system collapse. This is the first of its kind in the history of the power sector. The Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman, has inspected the National Control Centre in Osogbo, in Osun State just as he lauded the multiple peak energy record on the national grid this year. The NCC is the master-point for the coordination of all energy generation and transmission activity in Nigeria, being operated by the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). Engr. Mamman who visited the facility on Monday said: “It gives me great pleasure to be here in person on my first visit to the National Control Centre (NCC), Osogbo. Suffice to acknowledge the steady improvement we have made in the last couple of months, as accentuated by the attainment of an all-time peak generation of 5,520.40 megawatts (MW) and maximum daily energy of 115,067.78 megawatts hour (MWH) recorded on 30th October, 2020, and 11th December, 2020 respectively.” The minister also said incidents of grid disturbances and system collapses have reduced considerably, resulting in a regime of relative power supply stability due to entrenched synergy within the sector. The acting General Manager of NCC – TCN, Engr. Balarabe Abdullahi, said NCC coordinates power transmission up to the Republics of Niger, Togo and Benin, noting that key improvements have been recorded due to the efforts of the minister and the acting Managing Director of TCN, Engr. Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz. “We sustained the Grid operations for (five months, 29 days) at least six months without grid system collapse. This is the first of its kind in the history of the power sector.