The Managing Director (MD) of the National Inland Water Ways (NIWA) Chief George Moghalu has said that the south Eastern geopolitical zone must work hard to clinch the presidency. Moghalu made the statement in Nnewi, Anambra State on Saturday while interacting with some newsmen. He said that the need to work hard has become imperative because power is not given. According to him, since it is a democratic dispensation where number matters, there is need for Ndigbo to sit down and get organized for the Igbo presidency project. “Every zone wants to have the presidency, for me, I will like the Nigerian president to come from Nnewi because of the positive impact it will have on the community. “But the truth is that we are not talking about president of Igbo but president of Nigeria who will be an Igbo man. If we fully realize the enormity of the project, we have to put our house in order so that we can constructively engage people from other zones to get the needed number and support “There are two political platforms with which one can prosecute the presidency in the Nigeria of today, that is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressive Congress (APC), what I expect us to do is to work hard towards making Igbo persons win the presidential primaries of the two political parties so that it can be a win-win situation for us. All hands must be on the deck to actualize the Igbo presidency project” he said. During the occasion, he said he was running for Anambra state governnorship position because he will create opportunity to assess his government. According to him, he had never criticized any government without coming up with solutions, saying that there are many things that the present government in state is doing that cannot happen under his watch. “I have program for all the sectors, you really have to understand what you are doing to be the governor, Anambra State is very rich in human capital, what the government need to do is to create an enabling environment for these successful, committed and determined Anambra people who are blazing the trail in every field of human endeavors to keep soaring high” he stated. The Managing Director (MD) of the National Inland Water Ways (NIWA) Chief George Moghalu has said that the south Eastern geopolitical zone must work hard to clinch the presidency. Moghalu made the statement in Nnewi, Anambra State on Saturday while interacting with some newsmen. He said that the need to work hard has become imperative because power is not given. According to him, since it is a democratic dispensation where number matters, there is need for Ndigbo to sit down and get organized for the Igbo presidency project. “Every zone wants to have the presidency, for me, I will like the Nigerian president to come from Nnewi because of the positive impact it will have on the community. “But the truth is that we are not talking about president of Igbo but president of Nigeria who will be an Igbo man. If we fully realize the enormity of the project, we have to put our house in order so that we can constructively engage people from other zones to get the needed number and support “There are two political platforms with which one can prosecute the presidency in the Nigeria of today, that is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressive Congress (APC), what I expect us to do is to work hard towards making Igbo persons win the presidential primaries of the two political parties so that it can be a win-win situation for us. All hands must be on the deck to actualize the Igbo presidency project” he said. During the occasion, he said he was running for Anambra state governnorship position because he will create opportunity to assess his government. According to him, he had never criticized any government without coming up with solutions, saying that there are many things that the present government in state is doing that cannot happen under his watch. “I have program for all the sectors, you really have to understand what you are doing to be the governor, Anambra State is very rich in human capital, what the government need to do is to create an enabling environment for these successful, committed and determined Anambra people who are blazing the trail in every field of human endeavors to keep soaring high” he stated.