A group of members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kano State led by Hussaini Isa Mairiga has called on the party’s national headquarters to constitute a caretaker committee to lead the party in the state. Mairiga accused the party’s chairman in the state, Abdullahi Abbas, of ruling with impunity and not making effort to mend fences following the crisis that preceded the emergence of the Abbas-led-executive in 2018, alleging that candidates of the party for the forthcoming local government election were handpicked. Addressing journalists in Kano, Mairiga said he was speaking on behalf of the Legacy Group, members of the party from the defunct ANPP, CPC and ANC when the trio merged in 2014 before the 2015 general elections. “Although Abdullahi Abbas came into being as chairman of the party through a kangaroo election, instead of him trying to mend fences with everybody he has been ruling with impunity,” he claimed. He further alleged that the Abbas-led-executive “is unconstitutional and an illegal body, which means anything that comes from them is null and void.” Mairiga, a former special assistant to Senator Ibrahim Shekarau during the latter’s tenure as governor of Kano State, called on the APC headquarters in Abuja to urgently constitute a caretaker leadership that will see to the election of new leadership in Kano. Daily Trust reports that there has been no love lost between members of the Legacy Group and the Abbas-led-executive, believed to be loyal to the state governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, since the latter’s emergence. Efforts to get the reaction of the chairman of the party, Abbas, was unsuccessful as at the time of filing this report as calls to his mobile line were not connecting and a message, though marked delivered, was not replied. A phone call and text message sent to the party’s Secretary, Hon. Zakari Sarina was also not responded to.  A group of members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kano State led by Hussaini Isa Mairiga has called on the party’s national headquarters to constitute a caretaker committee to lead the party in the state. Mairiga accused the party’s chairman in the state, Abdullahi Abbas, of ruling with impunity and not making effort to mend fences following the crisis that preceded the emergence of the Abbas-led-executive in 2018, alleging that candidates of the party for the forthcoming local government election were handpicked. Addressing journalists in Kano, Mairiga said he was speaking on behalf of the Legacy Group, members of the party from the defunct ANPP, CPC and ANC when the trio merged in 2014 before the 2015 general elections. “Although Abdullahi Abbas came into being as chairman of the party through a kangaroo election, instead of him trying to mend fences with everybody he has been ruling with impunity,” he claimed. He further alleged that the Abbas-led-executive “is unconstitutional and an illegal body, which means anything that comes from them is null and void.” Mairiga, a former special assistant to Senator Ibrahim Shekarau during the latter’s tenure as governor of Kano State, called on the APC headquarters in Abuja to urgently constitute a caretaker leadership that will see to the election of new leadership in Kano. Daily Trust reports that there has been no love lost between members of the Legacy Group and the Abbas-led-executive, believed to be loyal to the state governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, since the latter’s emergence. Efforts to get the reaction of the chairman of the party, Abbas, was unsuccessful as at the time of filing this report as calls to his mobile line were not connecting and a message, though marked delivered, was not replied. A phone call and text message sent to the party’s Secretary, Hon. Zakari Sarina was also not responded to. 