The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has called for the return of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) to the seaports to check the influx of sub-standard products. The president of MAN, Engr. Mansur Ahmed, made the appeal at an interactive session with SON, while reaffirming manufacturers’ readiness to partner with SON. He said: “we have made strong representations to the relevant ministries and the agencies and we are making steady progress to ensure that there would be smooth operations at the ports when SON is returned.” “I believe that when they do that, the whole system will be harmonized and better technology put in place to enable SON work with other agencies needed to be the stage nation’s port.” The Director General, SON, Mallam Farouk Salim said the agency is the apex standardisation body in the country and it is working in line with the standardization policy of the Federal Government which  places a high premium on getting  rid of substandard and counterfeit products. He stressed that SON was not restricting itself to the enforcement of standards but also putting in place innovation to ensure that counterfeiting did not occur in the first place. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has called for the return of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) to the seaports to check the influx of sub-standard products. The president of MAN, Engr. Mansur Ahmed, made the appeal at an interactive session with SON, while reaffirming manufacturers’ readiness to partner with SON. He said: “we have made strong representations to the relevant ministries and the agencies and we are making steady progress to ensure that there would be smooth operations at the ports when SON is returned.” “I believe that when they do that, the whole system will be harmonized and better technology put in place to enable SON work with other agencies needed to be the stage nation’s port.” The Director General, SON, Mallam Farouk Salim said the agency is the apex standardisation body in the country and it is working in line with the standardization policy of the Federal Government which  places a high premium on getting  rid of substandard and counterfeit products. He stressed that SON was not restricting itself to the enforcement of standards but also putting in place innovation to ensure that counterfeiting did not occur in the first place.