A socio-cultural organisation, Agwatashi Unity Forum (AUF), in Nasarawa State, has kicked off skills acquisition and empowerment scheme for widows and unemployed graduates in the state. Spokesperson for the group, Alhaji Saidu Adamu, while  addressing beneficiaries  in Agwatashi, Obi Local Government Area of the state, said the gesture was in line with the spirit of assisting the needy in the yuletide season. Adamu explained that 250 beneficiaries had been selected for the pilot scheme to be trained in detergent making, salon, baking, tailoring, and welding among others, and  would be provided with start-up packs. In his remarks, Commissioner for Finance, Budget and Economic Planning in the state, Mr Haruna Ogbole described the initiative as one of its kind in the state saying the state government would continue to work closely with organisations whose objectives were people- centred. He said that the Agwatashi Unity Forum is a non profitable organisation by the Alago ethnic group with the aim of assisting the less privileged.  A socio-cultural organisation, Agwatashi Unity Forum (AUF), in Nasarawa State, has kicked off skills acquisition and empowerment scheme for widows and unemployed graduates in the state. Spokesperson for the group, Alhaji Saidu Adamu, while  addressing beneficiaries  in Agwatashi, Obi Local Government Area of the state, said the gesture was in line with the spirit of assisting the needy in the yuletide season. Adamu explained that 250 beneficiaries had been selected for the pilot scheme to be trained in detergent making, salon, baking, tailoring, and welding among others, and  would be provided with start-up packs. In his remarks, Commissioner for Finance, Budget and Economic Planning in the state, Mr Haruna Ogbole described the initiative as one of its kind in the state saying the state government would continue to work closely with organisations whose objectives were people- centred. He said that the Agwatashi Unity Forum is a non profitable organisation by the Alago ethnic group with the aim of assisting the less privileged. 