Former senators and members of House of representatives loyal to the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Hammed Tinubu in the southwest on Monday stormed the palaces of Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi and the Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Soliu Adetunji to seek royal support for the former governor of Lagos State. The delegation led by the chairman, planning committee of the group and a former Minister of state for works, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, said the group, named South West Agenda (SWAGA ’23) is a group of rainbow coalition of like minded politicians in the South West extraction. Other members of the group are; Senator Rilwan Adesoji Akanbi, Hon. Oyetunji Ojo, Hon. Bosun Oladele, Hon. Rotimi Makinde,Hon. Kafilat Ogbara, Hon. Toba Oke, Hon. Deji Jakande, Hon. Gboyega Okegbemi and immediate past Secretary to Ondo State Government, Ifedayo Abegunde. Speaking at the palaces, the former minister of state for works, Senator Dayo Adeyeye said Asiwaju Bola Tinubu remains the only Southerner who cut across the country with his structure who could defeat his opponent in his ward, just as the late Basorun Moshood Abiola did in 1993. Adeyeye said, “The tour is not a political campaign but a sensitization drive. “The agenda of the group is to call out all well meaning South-Westerners to encourage, market and support the candidature of their Principal His Excellency Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (the Jagaban Borgu) for the office of the President of Nigeria in 2023. “Their goal is driven by desire for a common front to push the Yoruba Agenda for leadership of Nigeria. The former minister said even though Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has not commissioned the group to market him but they decided to embark on the mission because of his contributions to human development and development of Lagos State. ‘I believe the mission’ Reacting, the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi said he was very happy to receive the delegates, adding that he believes in their mission. Alaafin who prayed for the group said “We Yoruba people believe that you don’t break covenant even if it is not written. We believe that if we do, it will have a repercussion. It is not too early for you to go round. “In the northern states, federal government said Boko Haram have been defeated but they are still slaughtering people. Your mission is well thought of but I won’t say more than that. I believe in your mission.” On his part, the Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Saliu Adeunji said his palace is opened to all politicians from the south west who wish to participate in the elections. He said, “I appreciate you all. I am proud of you, if you don’t demand for your right, they many not give you. You will prosper with this group. “Let me tell you that the doors of the palace is widely opened to all Yoruba politicians who wishes to seek votes.” Former senators and members of House of representatives loyal to the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Hammed Tinubu in the southwest on Monday stormed the palaces of Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi and the Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Soliu Adetunji to seek royal support for the former governor of Lagos State. The delegation led by the chairman, planning committee of the group and a former Minister of state for works, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, said the group, named South West Agenda (SWAGA ’23) is a group of rainbow coalition of like minded politicians in the South West extraction. Other members of the group are; Senator Rilwan Adesoji Akanbi, Hon. Oyetunji Ojo, Hon. Bosun Oladele, Hon. Rotimi Makinde,Hon. Kafilat Ogbara, Hon. Toba Oke, Hon. Deji Jakande, Hon. Gboyega Okegbemi and immediate past Secretary to Ondo State Government, Ifedayo Abegunde. Speaking at the palaces, the former minister of state for works, Senator Dayo Adeyeye said Asiwaju Bola Tinubu remains the only Southerner who cut across the country with his structure who could defeat his opponent in his ward, just as the late Basorun Moshood Abiola did in 1993. Adeyeye said, “The tour is not a political campaign but a sensitization drive. “The agenda of the group is to call out all well meaning South-Westerners to encourage, market and support the candidature of their Principal His Excellency Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (the Jagaban Borgu) for the office of the President of Nigeria in 2023. “Their goal is driven by desire for a common front to push the Yoruba Agenda for leadership of Nigeria. The former minister said even though Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has not commissioned the group to market him but they decided to embark on the mission because of his contributions to human development and development of Lagos State. ‘I believe the mission’ Reacting, the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi said he was very happy to receive the delegates, adding that he believes in their mission. Alaafin who prayed for the group said “We Yoruba people believe that you don’t break covenant even if it is not written. We believe that if we do, it will have a repercussion. It is not too early for you to go round. “In the northern states, federal government said Boko Haram have been defeated but they are still slaughtering people. Your mission is well thought of but I won’t say more than that. I believe in your mission.” On his part, the Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Saliu Adeunji said his palace is opened to all politicians from the south west who wish to participate in the elections. He said, “I appreciate you all. I am proud of you, if you don’t demand for your right, they many not give you. You will prosper with this group. “Let me tell you that the doors of the palace is widely opened to all Yoruba politicians who wishes to seek votes.”