Nasarawa State Fire Service has cautioned residents against bush burning, bonfire and throwing cigarette into shrubs to avoid fire outbreak during harmattan season. Director of the Service, Alhaji Dalhatu Dogara, who gave the warning during an interview with Daily Trust, also advised people to avoid activities that would lead to fire outbreak. Dogara said it has become imperative to educate people on the dangers of such practices before it’s too late. According to him, “Most fire outbreaks are caused by human error due to negligence, especially by those who make bonfires to warm themselves against cold and later abandon it, and due to strong wind. “This fire leads to loss of lives and property and is not easy to contain as the wind keeps blowing the inferno with smoke to distant places,” he said. Dogara advised people who smoke cigarettes and those who use fire to fry food to always quench the fire to safeguard the society f. The fire fighting officer also called on travellers to also shun the habit of throwing out remains of burning cigarettes to avoid igniting bush fires. He also warns hunters against bush burning in search of animals.  Nasarawa State Fire Service has cautioned residents against bush burning, bonfire and throwing cigarette into shrubs to avoid fire outbreak during harmattan season. Director of the Service, Alhaji Dalhatu Dogara, who gave the warning during an interview with Daily Trust, also advised people to avoid activities that would lead to fire outbreak. Dogara said it has become imperative to educate people on the dangers of such practices before it’s too late. According to him, “Most fire outbreaks are caused by human error due to negligence, especially by those who make bonfires to warm themselves against cold and later abandon it, and due to strong wind. “This fire leads to loss of lives and property and is not easy to contain as the wind keeps blowing the inferno with smoke to distant places,” he said. Dogara advised people who smoke cigarettes and those who use fire to fry food to always quench the fire to safeguard the society f. The fire fighting officer also called on travellers to also shun the habit of throwing out remains of burning cigarettes to avoid igniting bush fires. He also warns hunters against bush burning in search of animals. 