Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has signed the N164.7 billion Appropriation Bill into law. Signing the budget yesterday in Benin, Obaseki said the budget tagged ‘Making Edo Great Again (MEGA) budget’ will alleviate challenges from the coronavirus pandemic. “The budget is primed at strengthening the state’s healthcare system across board, sustaining gains in the education and social sectors, providing needed stimulus to drive food security, supporting the weak and vulnerable in the society and actively engaging the youths,” Obaseki said. According to him, funds have been raised to ensure a successful implementation of the budget for the benefit of the people and state. “We have successfully closed a N25 billion five-year bond at a record price of nine per cent. The resources will be available to commence the funding of this budget.” Presenting the budget estimates, the Speaker, Edo State House of Assembly, Marcus Onobun, noted that the Assembly deemed it fit to review the estimates upwards from the initial 153.4bn to N164.7bn. Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has signed the N164.7 billion Appropriation Bill into law. Signing the budget yesterday in Benin, Obaseki said the budget tagged ‘Making Edo Great Again (MEGA) budget’ will alleviate challenges from the coronavirus pandemic. “The budget is primed at strengthening the state’s healthcare system across board, sustaining gains in the education and social sectors, providing needed stimulus to drive food security, supporting the weak and vulnerable in the society and actively engaging the youths,” Obaseki said. According to him, funds have been raised to ensure a successful implementation of the budget for the benefit of the people and state. “We have successfully closed a N25 billion five-year bond at a record price of nine per cent. The resources will be available to commence the funding of this budget.” Presenting the budget estimates, the Speaker, Edo State House of Assembly, Marcus Onobun, noted that the Assembly deemed it fit to review the estimates upwards from the initial 153.4bn to N164.7bn.