The Kuje Area council chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday inaugurated its caretaker committee of the ten ward chairmen in the area. Chairman of APC in the area, Godwin Poyi, while inaugurating the caretaker committee at the party’s secretary in Kuje, said the inauguration of the caretaker committee across the ten wards was at the instance of the APC NEC decision, urging all the dissolved party executives to serve as caretaker. He said the inauguration of both the local government executive caretaker committee as well as the ward chairmen committee of the party is expected to fulfill all required consultations with leaders and stakeholders of the party to ensure a smooth transition. Also speaking, the former chairman of the council, Alhaji Abdullahi D. Galadima, who is also the leader of APC in the area, said the inauguration of the local government executives will further strengthen the unity of the stakeholders of the party in the area. He therefore called on all members and supporters of the party to support the caretaker committee members, saying the party shall emerge victorious during the forthcoming local government election in the area. The Kuje Area council chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday inaugurated its caretaker committee of the ten ward chairmen in the area. Chairman of APC in the area, Godwin Poyi, while inaugurating the caretaker committee at the party’s secretary in Kuje, said the inauguration of the caretaker committee across the ten wards was at the instance of the APC NEC decision, urging all the dissolved party executives to serve as caretaker. He said the inauguration of both the local government executive caretaker committee as well as the ward chairmen committee of the party is expected to fulfill all required consultations with leaders and stakeholders of the party to ensure a smooth transition. Also speaking, the former chairman of the council, Alhaji Abdullahi D. Galadima, who is also the leader of APC in the area, said the inauguration of the local government executives will further strengthen the unity of the stakeholders of the party in the area. He therefore called on all members and supporters of the party to support the caretaker committee members, saying the party shall emerge victorious during the forthcoming local government election in the area.