Members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) loyal to Ambassador Aminu Wali in Kano State have dissociated themselves from the withdrawal of the party from the forthcoming local government polls in the state. Daily Trust reports that the caretaker committee of the party in the state, led by Dr Danladi Abdulhameed, on Tuesday, announced the withdrawal of the party from the January 16 election, citing lack of trust in the process as its reason. However, speaking on behalf of the PDP Interim Administrative Committee in Kano on Wednesday, Muhammina Lamido, its chairman, said the party’s preparations for participation in the election are in top gear. He said the committee would in due course inform the general public and the electoral commission of its candidates for the election. He appealed to the electoral body to reduce the cost of the application forms for candidates. Speaking earlier to Daily Trust, a chairmanship candidate under the PDP for Dala LGA, Mustapha Mai Royal, said “Abdulhameed is the spokesman for the Kwankwasiyya Movement and not the PDP in Kano,” adding that the “PDP leader is Ambassador Aminu Bashir Wali.” Reacting, Abdulhameed told Daily Trust in a phone interview on Wednesday that the caretaker committee remained the legitimate executive of the party in Kano. “I have my letter from the national secretariat,” he added.  Members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) loyal to Ambassador Aminu Wali in Kano State have dissociated themselves from the withdrawal of the party from the forthcoming local government polls in the state. Daily Trust reports that the caretaker committee of the party in the state, led by Dr Danladi Abdulhameed, on Tuesday, announced the withdrawal of the party from the January 16 election, citing lack of trust in the process as its reason. However, speaking on behalf of the PDP Interim Administrative Committee in Kano on Wednesday, Muhammina Lamido, its chairman, said the party’s preparations for participation in the election are in top gear. He said the committee would in due course inform the general public and the electoral commission of its candidates for the election. He appealed to the electoral body to reduce the cost of the application forms for candidates. Speaking earlier to Daily Trust, a chairmanship candidate under the PDP for Dala LGA, Mustapha Mai Royal, said “Abdulhameed is the spokesman for the Kwankwasiyya Movement and not the PDP in Kano,” adding that the “PDP leader is Ambassador Aminu Bashir Wali.” Reacting, Abdulhameed told Daily Trust in a phone interview on Wednesday that the caretaker committee remained the legitimate executive of the party in Kano. “I have my letter from the national secretariat,” he added. 