The Nasarawa State House of Assembly (NSHA) said it is supporting Gov. Abdullahi Sule’s move to harmonize revenue collection points for the state and local governments to block leakages. The House also said it has passed a bill for the first and second reading for a law to provide for the harmonization and collection of all revenues (taxes, duties, levies rates, fees charges etc) due to the state and local governments in Nasarawa State. The bill is also for the establishment of relevant administrative structures and other purposes. Speaker of the Assembly, Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi, announced the passage of the bill into first and second reading during the House Proceedings in Lafia today. He said that the bill if passed into law would ensure transparency and accountability in revenue collection in the state. “I must commend you for turning up despite short notice as we are all aware that we are on recess. I thank you all and I urge all of us to continue in that spirit of unity, progress and development,” he said. “This government is up and doing to see how the state can be moved to the next level of development. This bill if passed into law will harmonize all revenues and will block leakages in revenue collection in the state,” he said. The Nasarawa State House of Assembly (NSHA) said it is supporting Gov. Abdullahi Sule’s move to harmonize revenue collection points for the state and local governments to block leakages. The House also said it has passed a bill for the first and second reading for a law to provide for the harmonization and collection of all revenues (taxes, duties, levies rates, fees charges etc) due to the state and local governments in Nasarawa State. The bill is also for the establishment of relevant administrative structures and other purposes. Speaker of the Assembly, Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi, announced the passage of the bill into first and second reading during the House Proceedings in Lafia today. He said that the bill if passed into law would ensure transparency and accountability in revenue collection in the state. “I must commend you for turning up despite short notice as we are all aware that we are on recess. I thank you all and I urge all of us to continue in that spirit of unity, progress and development,” he said. “This government is up and doing to see how the state can be moved to the next level of development. This bill if passed into law will harmonize all revenues and will block leakages in revenue collection in the state,” he said.