From the stable of Coscharis Motors PLC, a subsidiary of Coscharis Group, four Renault Brands have debuted to hit the roads and highways in Nigeria and satisfy the passion of the auto enthusiasts. These include the Logan, Kwid, Duster and the Koleos Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) which combine class, portability and ruggedness.  Logan New Renault Logan comes with modern and dynamic design. With redesigned front and rear end panels featuring the new Renault brand light signature, New Renault Logan is a beauty to behold. New Renault Logan has five seats (comprising three-seat rear) to comfortably accommodate all passengers plus useful and smart new storage areas, including a phone pouch and a front passenger side net pouch. There’s a new 12 V output in the rear for charging of devices. Logan’s ground clearance level (155-164mm) enhances its capacity to cope with extremely poor road surfaces (potholes, cobbles, uneven surfaces. The mechanics, bodywork (opening panels), air conditioning/ventilation system and passenger compartment all specially designed to cope with certain countries’ environments where dust is omnipresent. Logan has an excellent thermal comfort standard (the vehicle is designed to deal with “extremely hot” conditions. It has other equipment such as the passenger airbag, accessory body colour, passenger airbag disconnection, 315 MHZ normal door opening, and several other interesting features.   Duster Customers can choose from 1.6-Litre to 2.0 litre engines but whichever engine, it is built with a robust off-roader looks. With the superb ground clearance, the Duster is a practical and durable vehicle for the Nigerian road. The interior of the All-new Duster reflects its generous, adventure-seeking nature. The spacious cabin is bright and reassuring. The driver and passenger seats provide plenty of support to ensure your comfort wherever you go. The upholstery features a high-quality finish, as does the dashboard, where particular emphasis was placed on ergonomic design. It comes with a simple and intuitive, multimedia system Media Nav with a touch screen which allows drivers to navigate through all the different functionalities: navigation, phone, radio, Aux/USB ports and Bluetooth® connection to listen to your favorite music. It also comes with a hands free card to lock and unlock the doors from a distance as well as assist to start the air-conditioning before getting into the car.  Kwid Renault Kwid comes with plenty of headroom, legroom and elbowroom for the driver plus up to 4 passengers with “ingenious” storage spaces everywhere. The Renault KWID’s class-leading boot space of 290L can be extended up to 1100L, making it the perfect partner for a long road trip. Included equipment include the fog lights, 3 full rear head restraint, front side airbag, immobilizer device, gear shift indicator, rear bench seat, air-conditioning, 3-seat rear middle seat, exterior fuel filter.  The Koleos The Koleos is designed with a sense of detail and personality enhanced by its sleek appearance and athletic curves. Behind its chic urban styling, Koleos has the DNA of a true 4X4. The ALL MODE 4×4-i technology allows you to select the transmission mode that your vehicle will need to be equally at home on dirt, mud or sand as it is on tarmac. Koleos comes with a range of driver assistance technologies including active emergency braking, blind spot detection system, easy trunk access and R-Link 2 media system, anti-lock brakes, emergency brake assist, air duct to rear seat, front airbags, driver and passenger, auto lamp and wiping, among others. Two of the four brands – Duster and Logan are assembled at the Coscharis Assembly plant in Lagos. Group Managing Director, Coscharis Group, Josiah Samuel during a test-drive of the brands said, “As at today, Coscharis Motors is set to commence Renault vehicle sales based on locally assembled models and fully built models for Nigerian roads.” He disclosed that the group has secured all the ratings and approvals from the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) to commence assemblage of the Duster and Logan while we are presently bringing in fully – built Koleos, Kwid and Oroch (which is to be introduced at a later date)”. General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde, said that Renault Automobile Company has improved with its state-of-the-art technology, which further makes its products more competitive, not just in the Nigerian market, but worldwide. This explains why the Coscharis Group identifies with the brands as a firm known for giving value to buyers.  He assured reliable after sales and parts services for the four brands. From the stable of Coscharis Motors PLC, a subsidiary of Coscharis Group, four Renault Brands have debuted to hit the roads and highways in Nigeria and satisfy the passion of the auto enthusiasts. These include the Logan, Kwid, Duster and the Koleos Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) which combine class, portability and ruggedness.  Logan New Renault Logan comes with modern and dynamic design. With redesigned front and rear end panels featuring the new Renault brand light signature, New Renault Logan is a beauty to behold. New Renault Logan has five seats (comprising three-seat rear) to comfortably accommodate all passengers plus useful and smart new storage areas, including a phone pouch and a front passenger side net pouch. There’s a new 12 V output in the rear for charging of devices. Logan’s ground clearance level (155-164mm) enhances its capacity to cope with extremely poor road surfaces (potholes, cobbles, uneven surfaces. The mechanics, bodywork (opening panels), air conditioning/ventilation system and passenger compartment all specially designed to cope with certain countries’ environments where dust is omnipresent. Logan has an excellent thermal comfort standard (the vehicle is designed to deal with “extremely hot” conditions. It has other equipment such as the passenger airbag, accessory body colour, passenger airbag disconnection, 315 MHZ normal door opening, and several other interesting features.   Duster Customers can choose from 1.6-Litre to 2.0 litre engines but whichever engine, it is built with a robust off-roader looks. With the superb ground clearance, the Duster is a practical and durable vehicle for the Nigerian road. The interior of the All-new Duster reflects its generous, adventure-seeking nature. The spacious cabin is bright and reassuring. The driver and passenger seats provide plenty of support to ensure your comfort wherever you go. The upholstery features a high-quality finish, as does the dashboard, where particular emphasis was placed on ergonomic design. It comes with a simple and intuitive, multimedia system Media Nav with a touch screen which allows drivers to navigate through all the different functionalities: navigation, phone, radio, Aux/USB ports and Bluetooth® connection to listen to your favorite music. It also comes with a hands free card to lock and unlock the doors from a distance as well as assist to start the air-conditioning before getting into the car.  Kwid Renault Kwid comes with plenty of headroom, legroom and elbowroom for the driver plus up to 4 passengers with “ingenious” storage spaces everywhere. The Renault KWID’s class-leading boot space of 290L can be extended up to 1100L, making it the perfect partner for a long road trip. Included equipment include the fog lights, 3 full rear head restraint, front side airbag, immobilizer device, gear shift indicator, rear bench seat, air-conditioning, 3-seat rear middle seat, exterior fuel filter.  The Koleos The Koleos is designed with a sense of detail and personality enhanced by its sleek appearance and athletic curves. Behind its chic urban styling, Koleos has the DNA of a true 4X4. The ALL MODE 4×4-i technology allows you to select the transmission mode that your vehicle will need to be equally at home on dirt, mud or sand as it is on tarmac. Koleos comes with a range of driver assistance technologies including active emergency braking, blind spot detection system, easy trunk access and R-Link 2 media system, anti-lock brakes, emergency brake assist, air duct to rear seat, front airbags, driver and passenger, auto lamp and wiping, among others. Two of the four brands – Duster and Logan are assembled at the Coscharis Assembly plant in Lagos. Group Managing Director, Coscharis Group, Josiah Samuel during a test-drive of the brands said, “As at today, Coscharis Motors is set to commence Renault vehicle sales based on locally assembled models and fully built models for Nigerian roads.” He disclosed that the group has secured all the ratings and approvals from the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) to commence assemblage of the Duster and Logan while we are presently bringing in fully – built Koleos, Kwid and Oroch (which is to be introduced at a later date)”. General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde, said that Renault Automobile Company has improved with its state-of-the-art technology, which further makes its products more competitive, not just in the Nigerian market, but worldwide. This explains why the Coscharis Group identifies with the brands as a firm known for giving value to buyers.  He assured reliable after sales and parts services for the four brands.