Project SafeUp, an initiative created by My World of Bags (MWOB), a bag design and manufacturing company, in partnership with Mastercard Foundation, has produced and distributed over 100,000 items of free Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in four weeks. The PPE including reusable non-surgical masks, face shields, gowns, scrubs, shoe covers and head covers were distributed in Lagos, Oyo and Ekiti states. Following the outbreak of coronavirus in Nigeria, MWOB retooled its factory to focus on the production of PPE and established key partnerships with small and medium enterprises (SMEs) across the country. The initiative, which commenced in November 2020, is a joint effort to promote health and safety among Nigerians amidst the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The Director of Social Programmes, MWOB, Sinmi Olayebi, stressed the need for increased safety measures amidst the second wave of the virus; noting that a collaborative effort from citizens, private sector organisations and relevant government bodies is critical to stemming the tide.  Project SafeUp, an initiative created by My World of Bags (MWOB), a bag design and manufacturing company, in partnership with Mastercard Foundation, has produced and distributed over 100,000 items of free Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in four weeks. The PPE including reusable non-surgical masks, face shields, gowns, scrubs, shoe covers and head covers were distributed in Lagos, Oyo and Ekiti states. Following the outbreak of coronavirus in Nigeria, MWOB retooled its factory to focus on the production of PPE and established key partnerships with small and medium enterprises (SMEs) across the country. The initiative, which commenced in November 2020, is a joint effort to promote health and safety among Nigerians amidst the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The Director of Social Programmes, MWOB, Sinmi Olayebi, stressed the need for increased safety measures amidst the second wave of the virus; noting that a collaborative effort from citizens, private sector organisations and relevant government bodies is critical to stemming the tide. 