The Industrial Training Fund (ITF) has produced and unveiled the Federal Government’s first indigenously produced 4G-enabled cell phone from locally sourced materials. The Director-General of ITF, Sir Joseph Ari, launched the smart phone, dubbed “ITF Mobile” at the 12th National Council on Industry, Trade and Investment held yesterday in Abuja. The council meeting had as its theme: “Revitalisation of the Industry, Trade and Investment Sector in Nigeria in the Post-COVID-19 pandemic era”. The Ministers of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo and Ambassador Mariam Katagum, received the made-in-Nigeria smart phones for onward transmission to President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. In an interview in his office, Sir Ari said the home grown technology was produced at ITF’s Model Skills Training Centre located in Abuja under the supervision of the Training Manager, Mrs Yinka Shodunke. He said the materials for the phone were locally sourced in line with the Federal Government’s Executive Order 5 on use of local contents. Sir Ari said ITF has been in the process of trademarking and certifying the phone with the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON). He said once the phone has been patented, a plant would be set up to mass produce it at a cheap price for Nigerians. The Industrial Training Fund (ITF) has produced and unveiled the Federal Government’s first indigenously produced 4G-enabled cell phone from locally sourced materials. The Director-General of ITF, Sir Joseph Ari, launched the smart phone, dubbed “ITF Mobile” at the 12th National Council on Industry, Trade and Investment held yesterday in Abuja. The council meeting had as its theme: “Revitalisation of the Industry, Trade and Investment Sector in Nigeria in the Post-COVID-19 pandemic era”. The Ministers of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo and Ambassador Mariam Katagum, received the made-in-Nigeria smart phones for onward transmission to President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. In an interview in his office, Sir Ari said the home grown technology was produced at ITF’s Model Skills Training Centre located in Abuja under the supervision of the Training Manager, Mrs Yinka Shodunke. He said the materials for the phone were locally sourced in line with the Federal Government’s Executive Order 5 on use of local contents. Sir Ari said ITF has been in the process of trademarking and certifying the phone with the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON). He said once the phone has been patented, a plant would be set up to mass produce it at a cheap price for Nigerians.