The United Kingdom (UK) chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has asked the leadership of the party to zone the party’s 2023 presidential ticket to the South. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday in Abuja, leader of the UK chapter of the party, Prince Ade Omole, said the party should do that on the grounds that President Muhammadu Buhari, who is from the North, would be completing his eight years in 2023. Prince Omole, who is chairman of Nigeria in Diaspora Voting Council, explained that zoning was not in the constitution of the party, but stressed that “It is an arrangement that was put in place for fairness.” He said, “There are few divergent views regarding zoning, but personally, I believe it is the right thing to do. It is a step in the right direction and it just gives everybody a chance to actually have a shot at the presidency or any other office in the country.” “So, I think it is the right thing to do even though it is not part of the constitution. It is more of a ‘gentleman’s agreement’. Now, as we know, it (presidency) has been in the North and hopefully, it will come to the South this time around. “We have read reports about chieftains from both sides of the divide saying that the North is having it for eight years. It is time for the South to have it for another eight years. “So, it is a gentleman’s agreement that should continue for the greatness of the country. It is the right thing to do and we believe that that will happen come 2023,” he added.  The United Kingdom (UK) chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has asked the leadership of the party to zone the party’s 2023 presidential ticket to the South. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday in Abuja, leader of the UK chapter of the party, Prince Ade Omole, said the party should do that on the grounds that President Muhammadu Buhari, who is from the North, would be completing his eight years in 2023. Prince Omole, who is chairman of Nigeria in Diaspora Voting Council, explained that zoning was not in the constitution of the party, but stressed that “It is an arrangement that was put in place for fairness.” He said, “There are few divergent views regarding zoning, but personally, I believe it is the right thing to do. It is a step in the right direction and it just gives everybody a chance to actually have a shot at the presidency or any other office in the country.” “So, I think it is the right thing to do even though it is not part of the constitution. It is more of a ‘gentleman’s agreement’. Now, as we know, it (presidency) has been in the North and hopefully, it will come to the South this time around. “We have read reports about chieftains from both sides of the divide saying that the North is having it for eight years. It is time for the South to have it for another eight years. “So, it is a gentleman’s agreement that should continue for the greatness of the country. It is the right thing to do and we believe that that will happen come 2023,” he added. 