As the competition enters its third edition, Unity Bank Plc Corpreneruship Competition has seen more National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members receiving one million naira as grant for business expansion and start-up. The winners include Ejidike Vitalis, Aromire Yusuf, and Sanni Adeola as first, second and third position respectively. Speaking at the finale of the copreneurship challenge for the NYSC 2020 Batch B, Stream 1B corps members, in Lagos yesterday, the Group Head, Retail and SME Banking, Unity Bank Plc, Mr. Olufunwa Akinmade, said the competition was to encourage more youths with clear intentions to expand or start profitable ventures. “The money we are giving is not a loan and we do not want you to lose money. So, you must learn that mistakes are part of the business and constantly thinking about the challenge you will face in the business. Put the same energy you all have displayed today in your businesses as you face your post-service year ahead.” He said the programme also known as Entrepreneurship Development Initiative, started last year in Lagos, Edo, Ogun, and Abuja. This edition had seven youths pitched their business plan in agribusiness, fashion design, confectionaries and Zobo drink. A winner and pharmacy graduate from the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Ejidike Vitalis, said his drive for local content pushed him into zobo drink production. As the competition enters its third edition, Unity Bank Plc Corpreneruship Competition has seen more National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members receiving one million naira as grant for business expansion and start-up. The winners include Ejidike Vitalis, Aromire Yusuf, and Sanni Adeola as first, second and third position respectively. Speaking at the finale of the copreneurship challenge for the NYSC 2020 Batch B, Stream 1B corps members, in Lagos yesterday, the Group Head, Retail and SME Banking, Unity Bank Plc, Mr. Olufunwa Akinmade, said the competition was to encourage more youths with clear intentions to expand or start profitable ventures. “The money we are giving is not a loan and we do not want you to lose money. So, you must learn that mistakes are part of the business and constantly thinking about the challenge you will face in the business. Put the same energy you all have displayed today in your businesses as you face your post-service year ahead.” He said the programme also known as Entrepreneurship Development Initiative, started last year in Lagos, Edo, Ogun, and Abuja. This edition had seven youths pitched their business plan in agribusiness, fashion design, confectionaries and Zobo drink. A winner and pharmacy graduate from the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Ejidike Vitalis, said his drive for local content pushed him into zobo drink production.