A Federal High Court in Kano has ordered that the state government alongside seven others be put on notice why an interim injunction seeking to stop its loan request should not be granted. Justice S. I. Mark gave the order following an ex parte motion filed before it by Centre for Awareness on Justice and Accountability (CAJA) seeking to restrain the defendants or its agents from seeking the loan. CAJA had dragged the state government, Senate president, Central Bank of Nigeria, and Chinese embassy among others to stop such loan which it said was unnecessary. Daily Trust reports that the state government planned to secure N340b facility being the first phase of a loan from China Exim Bank for the construction of a light rail in the metropolis. The loan has been a thug of war between the state government and some elders of the state under concerned group led by Bashir Tofa. In his ruling, Justice Mark also granted the leave for the applicants to serve all the court processes against some of the defendants through substituted means and adjourned the matter to February 2, 2021, for mention.  A Federal High Court in Kano has ordered that the state government alongside seven others be put on notice why an interim injunction seeking to stop its loan request should not be granted. Justice S. I. Mark gave the order following an ex parte motion filed before it by Centre for Awareness on Justice and Accountability (CAJA) seeking to restrain the defendants or its agents from seeking the loan. CAJA had dragged the state government, Senate president, Central Bank of Nigeria, and Chinese embassy among others to stop such loan which it said was unnecessary. Daily Trust reports that the state government planned to secure N340b facility being the first phase of a loan from China Exim Bank for the construction of a light rail in the metropolis. The loan has been a thug of war between the state government and some elders of the state under concerned group led by Bashir Tofa. In his ruling, Justice Mark also granted the leave for the applicants to serve all the court processes against some of the defendants through substituted means and adjourned the matter to February 2, 2021, for mention. 