Ahead of Saturday’s 15 by-elections in 11 states, the National Peace Committee (NPC) has urged all contestants to be law-abiding and shun all acts that could aggravate the already tense situation in the country. The NPC, headed by a former Head of States, retired Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, congratulated all those who have scaled through the electoral processed to the final stage, stressing however that their struggle and willingness to serve must be backed up with commitment to obeying all the laws and processes laid down by the relevant authorities. “Nigerians are expecting a lot from all of you. These are already very troubling times in our country, as we hear of the almost daily losses of human lives and the destruction of livelihoods. “Do not further add to an already horrible situation that our nation is facing. “As such, on behalf of all of us in the NPC, I appeal to you: Please be law-abiding, play by the rules and conduct yourselves with the utmost discipline. Call on your supporters to please do the same. Best of luck to you all and God bless our country,” Abdulsalami said. The affected districts and constituencies are Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Bayelsa West Senatorial District; Nganzai State Constituency, Borno State; Bayo State Constituency, Borno State; Cross River North Senatorial District; and Obudu State Constituency, Cross River State. Others are Imo North Senatorial District; Lagos East Senatorial District; Kosofe II State Constituency, Lagos State; Plateau South Senatorial District; Bakura State Constituency, Zamfara State; Ibaji State Constituency, Kogi State; Isi-Uzo State Constituency, Enugu State; and Bakori State Constituency, Katsina State. Ahead of Saturday’s 15 by-elections in 11 states, the National Peace Committee (NPC) has urged all contestants to be law-abiding and shun all acts that could aggravate the already tense situation in the country. The NPC, headed by a former Head of States, retired Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, congratulated all those who have scaled through the electoral processed to the final stage, stressing however that their struggle and willingness to serve must be backed up with commitment to obeying all the laws and processes laid down by the relevant authorities. “Nigerians are expecting a lot from all of you. These are already very troubling times in our country, as we hear of the almost daily losses of human lives and the destruction of livelihoods. “Do not further add to an already horrible situation that our nation is facing. “As such, on behalf of all of us in the NPC, I appeal to you: Please be law-abiding, play by the rules and conduct yourselves with the utmost discipline. Call on your supporters to please do the same. Best of luck to you all and God bless our country,” Abdulsalami said. The affected districts and constituencies are Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Bayelsa West Senatorial District; Nganzai State Constituency, Borno State; Bayo State Constituency, Borno State; Cross River North Senatorial District; and Obudu State Constituency, Cross River State. Others are Imo North Senatorial District; Lagos East Senatorial District; Kosofe II State Constituency, Lagos State; Plateau South Senatorial District; Bakura State Constituency, Zamfara State; Ibaji State Constituency, Kogi State; Isi-Uzo State Constituency, Enugu State; and Bakori State Constituency, Katsina State.