The Ona of Abaji and chairman of the FCT council of chiefs, Alhaji Adamu Baba Yunusa, has cautioned newly turbaned traditional title holders against betraying his palace. Alhaji Yunusa spoke during the turban ceremony of two prominent sons of the council, Abdulnas Inuwa Gani and Abdullahi Yahuza Shawai, who were conferred with the traditional titles of Madakin Matasa and Sarkin Dawaki of Abaji respectively on Sunday. He said the palace decided to confer the traditional titles on two of the prominent sons of the area because of their immense contributions to the development of the palace and the entire Abaji chiefdom. He, therefore, urged the new title holders to ensure they do not betray the palace, saying the title given to them should give them more wisdom and commitment to do more for the development of the palace. The monarch also warned his subjects against indiscriminate bush burning at the peak of the dry season, saying bush burning has an adverse effect on the lives of people. Also speaking, the chairman of the council, Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya, represented by the secretary of the council, Alhaji Kamal Adamu Shuaibu, congratulated the turbaned titleholders in the area. He urged them to ensure they support and cooperate with the present led administration in tackling the challenges of insecurity in the country, saying security is everybody’s business that must be tackled collectively. The chairman also called on residents of the area to adhere strictly to the COVID-19 second wave as spelt out by the NCDC, saying the new wave of the pandemic was real. The Ona of Abaji and chairman of the FCT council of chiefs, Alhaji Adamu Baba Yunusa, has cautioned newly turbaned traditional title holders against betraying his palace. Alhaji Yunusa spoke during the turban ceremony of two prominent sons of the council, Abdulnas Inuwa Gani and Abdullahi Yahuza Shawai, who were conferred with the traditional titles of Madakin Matasa and Sarkin Dawaki of Abaji respectively on Sunday. He said the palace decided to confer the traditional titles on two of the prominent sons of the area because of their immense contributions to the development of the palace and the entire Abaji chiefdom. He, therefore, urged the new title holders to ensure they do not betray the palace, saying the title given to them should give them more wisdom and commitment to do more for the development of the palace. The monarch also warned his subjects against indiscriminate bush burning at the peak of the dry season, saying bush burning has an adverse effect on the lives of people. Also speaking, the chairman of the council, Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya, represented by the secretary of the council, Alhaji Kamal Adamu Shuaibu, congratulated the turbaned titleholders in the area. He urged them to ensure they support and cooperate with the present led administration in tackling the challenges of insecurity in the country, saying security is everybody’s business that must be tackled collectively. The chairman also called on residents of the area to adhere strictly to the COVID-19 second wave as spelt out by the NCDC, saying the new wave of the pandemic was real.