A former Kano State governor, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, has said he has no regret making a former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Sanusi Lamido Sanusi II, the Emir of Kano. Kwankwaso, who is also a former Minister of Defence, was responding to comments by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje (his former deputy) during the public presentation of a book entitled ‘Dear President Goodluck Jonathan (An Open Letter)’ written by a former Managing Editor of the Daily Times Newspaper, Bonaventure Melah. He also prayed to God Almighty to “save Kano State and indeed the whole country from the present quagmire that we found ourselves in.” According to him, the appointment and coronation of the Emir of Kano involved a consultative process guided by law, adding that as the then governor of Kano State, he knew the type of people to consult when it came to such critical issues which border on life-long appointments like the successor of the late Emir Ado Bayero. Governor Ganduje had at the event which held in Abuja said he dethroned Sanusi in March 2020 to save the traditional institution from abuse even though he was not the best among the contestants. But Kwankwaso, in a statement issued yesterday in Abuja by his Principal Private Secretary, Muhammad Inuwa entitled ‘Ganduje and the blabbering of an impostor’, said he opted for the ex-CBN governor because he was looking for a progressive emir that would succeed Ado Bayero. ‘The choice of Muhammad Sanusi II was made among other contestants because he is the most knowledgeable in both Islamic and western education. “He is the most experienced and enjoys a tremendous amount of support and goodwill from the kingmakers, the emirate council and indeed the good people of Kano State; this was what informed his appointment,” he added. A former Kano State governor, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, has said he has no regret making a former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Sanusi Lamido Sanusi II, the Emir of Kano. Kwankwaso, who is also a former Minister of Defence, was responding to comments by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje (his former deputy) during the public presentation of a book entitled ‘Dear President Goodluck Jonathan (An Open Letter)’ written by a former Managing Editor of the Daily Times Newspaper, Bonaventure Melah. He also prayed to God Almighty to “save Kano State and indeed the whole country from the present quagmire that we found ourselves in.” According to him, the appointment and coronation of the Emir of Kano involved a consultative process guided by law, adding that as the then governor of Kano State, he knew the type of people to consult when it came to such critical issues which border on life-long appointments like the successor of the late Emir Ado Bayero. Governor Ganduje had at the event which held in Abuja said he dethroned Sanusi in March 2020 to save the traditional institution from abuse even though he was not the best among the contestants. But Kwankwaso, in a statement issued yesterday in Abuja by his Principal Private Secretary, Muhammad Inuwa entitled ‘Ganduje and the blabbering of an impostor’, said he opted for the ex-CBN governor because he was looking for a progressive emir that would succeed Ado Bayero. ‘The choice of Muhammad Sanusi II was made among other contestants because he is the most knowledgeable in both Islamic and western education. “He is the most experienced and enjoys a tremendous amount of support and goodwill from the kingmakers, the emirate council and indeed the good people of Kano State; this was what informed his appointment,” he added.