A former Senator who represented Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the Senate, Comrade Shehu Sani, has said the House of Representatives members are afraid of President Muhammad Buhari going by the decision of the president not to honour the invitation to appear before the house. Speaking on BBC Hausa Service, Sani stressed the need for the president to appear before the National Assembly and answer questions on insecurity. He said there was no reason for them to summon the president and later reject the idea. “People are being killed on a daily basis, thousands of people are kidnapped and many were stolen but it seems the presidency didn’t care. “So, I see no reason why they will reject the invitation for the president to appear before them. “These are some of the reasons why Jonathan was voted out but we are still witnessing it. “What is the essence of the invitation if you will still reject it? “That means you are afraid of the president. “The invitation will help the president explain himself to Nigerians and also voice out his plans for the future,” he said. He said the National Assembly should be a place to amplify the voices of the people and monitor the activities and projects of government. A former Senator who represented Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the Senate, Comrade Shehu Sani, has said the House of Representatives members are afraid of President Muhammad Buhari going by the decision of the president not to honour the invitation to appear before the house. Speaking on BBC Hausa Service, Sani stressed the need for the president to appear before the National Assembly and answer questions on insecurity. He said there was no reason for them to summon the president and later reject the idea. “People are being killed on a daily basis, thousands of people are kidnapped and many were stolen but it seems the presidency didn’t care. “So, I see no reason why they will reject the invitation for the president to appear before them. “These are some of the reasons why Jonathan was voted out but we are still witnessing it. “What is the essence of the invitation if you will still reject it? “That means you are afraid of the president. “The invitation will help the president explain himself to Nigerians and also voice out his plans for the future,” he said. He said the National Assembly should be a place to amplify the voices of the people and monitor the activities and projects of government.