Ekiti State Stakeholders Forum of the APC has debunked a statement credited to the chairman of the party in the state, Mr Paul Omotoso, that the chapter has backed Governor Kayode Fayemi for the 2023 presidential race. A statement issued yesterday by Prince Bamgboye Adegoroye said: “we want to state unequivocally that Hon. Ade Ajayi who represented Mr Omotoso barely expressed a personal view at a social event,where the convener was absent or at best, the views of a small clique in APC.” The forum said Ajayi’s boss did not believe that the position should be zoned to South West as expressed on the national platform recently. It would be recalled that Ajayi, the publicity secretary of the APC caretaker committee, weekend, said the party would drag Governor Fayemi into the 2023 presidential race. Adegoroye, however, said that all the States in the South of Nigeria deserved a shot at the Presidency if it was agreed upon by the party’s national leaders. He said the forum  along with other eminent Yoruba leaders would canvass for the opportunity to produce the next President in 2023 from the zone. Adegoroye said the adoption of an authentic, qualified, well known, humane and experienced Yoruba man was the goal of the forum, adding that “we will play our part in accomplishing that task”. Ekiti State Stakeholders Forum of the APC has debunked a statement credited to the chairman of the party in the state, Mr Paul Omotoso, that the chapter has backed Governor Kayode Fayemi for the 2023 presidential race. A statement issued yesterday by Prince Bamgboye Adegoroye said: “we want to state unequivocally that Hon. Ade Ajayi who represented Mr Omotoso barely expressed a personal view at a social event,where the convener was absent or at best, the views of a small clique in APC.” The forum said Ajayi’s boss did not believe that the position should be zoned to South West as expressed on the national platform recently. It would be recalled that Ajayi, the publicity secretary of the APC caretaker committee, weekend, said the party would drag Governor Fayemi into the 2023 presidential race. Adegoroye, however, said that all the States in the South of Nigeria deserved a shot at the Presidency if it was agreed upon by the party’s national leaders. He said the forum  along with other eminent Yoruba leaders would canvass for the opportunity to produce the next President in 2023 from the zone. Adegoroye said the adoption of an authentic, qualified, well known, humane and experienced Yoruba man was the goal of the forum, adding that “we will play our part in accomplishing that task”.