Medical doctors under the aegis of the  Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria, Ogun State chapter,  have cried out over alleged multiple taxations against them by the government. The doctors lamented that they lost so much to the treatment of the patients they described as unidentified. The state Chairman of AGPMPN, Dr Rabiu Kusimo, stated this while speaking with journalists shortly after the association’s Annual General Meeting. Kusimo, who was re-elected along with other members of the executive for a second tenure maintained that the COVID-19 period had changed the means of doing business. He appealed to the state governor, Dapo Abiodun, to relieve members of the AGPMPN the burden of multiple taxations. He stressed that the association was seeking cut in multiple taxations because many of its patients were poor and could not adequately pay for medical services rendered to them. He further said, “we lose so much to the treatment of unidentified patients that we have to compulsorily attend to under the National Health act and helping hands. “We give the international agencies as an adjunct to the free medication for some diseases, such as Tuberculosis. Yet, many of our patients are poor and cannot adequately pay for the services offered. This makes it a louder call for some relief from the many levies and charges by many agencies of the state government. “Suffice to mention that this period is a the time when governments all over the world are giving massive support to the private sector to strengthen the sector through loans and tax cuts. “On behalf of the Ogun AGPMPN, this executive is currently on advocacy to request the state government and her many agencies, a relief from the burden of taxation on private medical practitioners’’.  Medical doctors under the aegis of the  Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria, Ogun State chapter,  have cried out over alleged multiple taxations against them by the government. The doctors lamented that they lost so much to the treatment of the patients they described as unidentified. The state Chairman of AGPMPN, Dr Rabiu Kusimo, stated this while speaking with journalists shortly after the association’s Annual General Meeting. Kusimo, who was re-elected along with other members of the executive for a second tenure maintained that the COVID-19 period had changed the means of doing business. He appealed to the state governor, Dapo Abiodun, to relieve members of the AGPMPN the burden of multiple taxations. He stressed that the association was seeking cut in multiple taxations because many of its patients were poor and could not adequately pay for medical services rendered to them. He further said, “we lose so much to the treatment of unidentified patients that we have to compulsorily attend to under the National Health act and helping hands. “We give the international agencies as an adjunct to the free medication for some diseases, such as Tuberculosis. Yet, many of our patients are poor and cannot adequately pay for the services offered. This makes it a louder call for some relief from the many levies and charges by many agencies of the state government. “Suffice to mention that this period is a the time when governments all over the world are giving massive support to the private sector to strengthen the sector through loans and tax cuts. “On behalf of the Ogun AGPMPN, this executive is currently on advocacy to request the state government and her many agencies, a relief from the burden of taxation on private medical practitioners’’. 