The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it is considering creating additional voting units ahead of the 2023 general elections. INEC Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu said this, on Tuesday, at the technical session on the amendment of the Electoral Act held by the joint National Assembly committees on INEC. “We need to create additional polling units. This is part of our discussion at the meeting of the commission today. We need to expand access of voters to polling units,” he said. Speaking earlier, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on INEC, Senator Kabir Gaya, said his panel had received 35 submissions and several other presentations on the amendment of the Electoral Act. He listed the submissions of stakeholders to include diaspora voting, full biometric for accreditation, electronic voting and electronic transmission of results, reduction on the cost of conducting elections, electronic accreditation, continuous registration of voters and improvement of election administration. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it is considering creating additional voting units ahead of the 2023 general elections. INEC Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu said this, on Tuesday, at the technical session on the amendment of the Electoral Act held by the joint National Assembly committees on INEC. “We need to create additional polling units. This is part of our discussion at the meeting of the commission today. We need to expand access of voters to polling units,” he said. Speaking earlier, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on INEC, Senator Kabir Gaya, said his panel had received 35 submissions and several other presentations on the amendment of the Electoral Act. He listed the submissions of stakeholders to include diaspora voting, full biometric for accreditation, electronic voting and electronic transmission of results, reduction on the cost of conducting elections, electronic accreditation, continuous registration of voters and improvement of election administration.