The elected chairmen of Damboa and Gwoza LGCs, Professor Adamu Garba Alooma and Professor Ibrahim Bukar, yesterday in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, took their oath of office alongside 25 others. Also sworn in was a PhD holder, Dr Ali Lawan Yaumi, for Magumeri LGA alongside other holders of postgraduate and first degrees, as well as experienced grassroots politicians. Local council elections were suspended for over 10 years as a result of the relentless attacks by insurgents on communities leading to the death of thousands of people and the destruction of property worth billions of naira. With the gradual return of peace, the state authorities agreed and held elections for the positions of chairmen in the 27 LGAs as well as councillorships in 312 wards on November 28 this year. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) won all the contested positions in the election. The inauguration ceremony was presided over by Governor Babagana Umara Zulum who called on the elected officials to discharge their “duties with the fear of God, but without fear or favour”. He directed the Ministry for Local Government and Emirate Affairs to release to the elected chairmen all funds allocated to the councils from the federation account to carry out their responsibilities. Chairmen of displaced councils whose citizens returned home would also relocate their operational bases from Maiduguri. Earlier, Professor Alooma of Damboa LGC said he would pool revenue from alternative sources to provide the developmental needs of the people. The elected chairmen of Damboa and Gwoza LGCs, Professor Adamu Garba Alooma and Professor Ibrahim Bukar, yesterday in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, took their oath of office alongside 25 others. Also sworn in was a PhD holder, Dr Ali Lawan Yaumi, for Magumeri LGA alongside other holders of postgraduate and first degrees, as well as experienced grassroots politicians. Local council elections were suspended for over 10 years as a result of the relentless attacks by insurgents on communities leading to the death of thousands of people and the destruction of property worth billions of naira. With the gradual return of peace, the state authorities agreed and held elections for the positions of chairmen in the 27 LGAs as well as councillorships in 312 wards on November 28 this year. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) won all the contested positions in the election. The inauguration ceremony was presided over by Governor Babagana Umara Zulum who called on the elected officials to discharge their “duties with the fear of God, but without fear or favour”. He directed the Ministry for Local Government and Emirate Affairs to release to the elected chairmen all funds allocated to the councils from the federation account to carry out their responsibilities. Chairmen of displaced councils whose citizens returned home would also relocate their operational bases from Maiduguri. Earlier, Professor Alooma of Damboa LGC said he would pool revenue from alternative sources to provide the developmental needs of the people.