Ultimus Holdings, a Pan-African investment company with diverse interests in Real Estate and Construction Services, among others has concluded a plan to invest a total of $400m in Nigeria in the next 10 years. President and Chief Executive Officer of Ultimus Holdings, Dr. Ifeanyi Odii disclosed this in Lagos while unveiling THE CLASSROOM, a showroom offering a mix of ambience fittings solutions. The Classroom, which aims to spread its footprints to 10 African countries in 10 years, is a new first-of-its-kind ambience fitting showroom located in Victoria Island, Lagos. He said the decision to open the ambience fittings showroom is driven by the passion to transform ordinary spaces into an extraordinary space. “It’s all about taking their space on endless rides of experiences by defining lighting as a mood of stylish glamour or turning their walls into a canvass of self-expression or transforming their kitchen into a culinary arena and their bathroom, a monument to every eye,” he said. Vice President, Ultimus Holdings, Mr David Ewemie explained that the outlet offers a top-end solution in interior design that provides an unforgettable experience which comes with glamour and grandeur. Ultimus Holdings, a Pan-African investment company with diverse interests in Real Estate and Construction Services, among others has concluded a plan to invest a total of $400m in Nigeria in the next 10 years. President and Chief Executive Officer of Ultimus Holdings, Dr. Ifeanyi Odii disclosed this in Lagos while unveiling THE CLASSROOM, a showroom offering a mix of ambience fittings solutions. The Classroom, which aims to spread its footprints to 10 African countries in 10 years, is a new first-of-its-kind ambience fitting showroom located in Victoria Island, Lagos. He said the decision to open the ambience fittings showroom is driven by the passion to transform ordinary spaces into an extraordinary space. “It’s all about taking their space on endless rides of experiences by defining lighting as a mood of stylish glamour or turning their walls into a canvass of self-expression or transforming their kitchen into a culinary arena and their bathroom, a monument to every eye,” he said. Vice President, Ultimus Holdings, Mr David Ewemie explained that the outlet offers a top-end solution in interior design that provides an unforgettable experience which comes with glamour and grandeur.