Chief Executive Officer of AutoCheck, an automotive technology firm, Etop Ikpe, said yesterday that the African automobile industry, which is currently estimated at about $45bn can be grown to $200bn with the right vehicle financing mechanism. “This industry is extremely valuable. The population growth is extremely high in Nigeria and Africa.  Cars, automobiles would remain significant. This is an industry that will continue to grow. It remains a $45bn industry across Africa. It is the second-largest consumer of foreign exchange in Nigeria after petroleum export,” Ikpe said. He spoke in Lagos at the launch of its website and mobile application where customers can buy, sell and fix cars, using their smartphones from the comfort of any location. According to him, the $45bn could go up to $200bn or $300bn due to the current size of the Nigerian economy if the main catalysts are in place. These include the right financing scheme, solid after-sale support, standardised pricing system, among others. He said the firm would provide a key solution to tackling some of the challenges posed by a lack of auto funding in the African automotive industry. Autochek’s website and mobile application come with a “get pre-qualified” feature where customers can receive funding to own the car of their dreams. Having gone through the pre-qualification process, customers can browse a personalized inventory curated just for them, and enjoy instalment payments on received car loans. Vice President Commercial, Mayokun Fadeyibi said “AutoChek’s mission is to enable and enhance automotive commerce across Africa through technology, creating value for all stakeholders in the ecosystem. “The launch of the website and mobile application reflects Autochek’s commitment as the platform provides seamless access to financing services that ease car ownership in Nigeria and Africa. We are proud of the resources and services put together for the convenience of our customers by our financial partners, dealer partners and workshops. “We are very excited about the future of Autochek in leading and expanding the frontiers of the African automotive industry at large.”  Chief Executive Officer of AutoCheck, an automotive technology firm, Etop Ikpe, said yesterday that the African automobile industry, which is currently estimated at about $45bn can be grown to $200bn with the right vehicle financing mechanism. “This industry is extremely valuable. The population growth is extremely high in Nigeria and Africa.  Cars, automobiles would remain significant. This is an industry that will continue to grow. It remains a $45bn industry across Africa. It is the second-largest consumer of foreign exchange in Nigeria after petroleum export,” Ikpe said. He spoke in Lagos at the launch of its website and mobile application where customers can buy, sell and fix cars, using their smartphones from the comfort of any location. According to him, the $45bn could go up to $200bn or $300bn due to the current size of the Nigerian economy if the main catalysts are in place. These include the right financing scheme, solid after-sale support, standardised pricing system, among others. He said the firm would provide a key solution to tackling some of the challenges posed by a lack of auto funding in the African automotive industry. Autochek’s website and mobile application come with a “get pre-qualified” feature where customers can receive funding to own the car of their dreams. Having gone through the pre-qualification process, customers can browse a personalized inventory curated just for them, and enjoy instalment payments on received car loans. Vice President Commercial, Mayokun Fadeyibi said “AutoChek’s mission is to enable and enhance automotive commerce across Africa through technology, creating value for all stakeholders in the ecosystem. “The launch of the website and mobile application reflects Autochek’s commitment as the platform provides seamless access to financing services that ease car ownership in Nigeria and Africa. We are proud of the resources and services put together for the convenience of our customers by our financial partners, dealer partners and workshops. “We are very excited about the future of Autochek in leading and expanding the frontiers of the African automotive industry at large.” 