The Nigeria Equity Group (NEG) yesterday demanded that the position of the President should go to a southern Christian in 2023 after the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari. This is imperative in the interest of equity and justice, the group said. The NEG, which describes itself as a collection of patriotic Nigerians from all walks of life with membership that cuts across the six geo-political zones of the country, said this in a statement by its Convener, Emeka Nwosu and Secretary, Alhaji Mubarak Muhammed. It stressed that for the sake of equity and justice, Nigeria must “maintain the political balance that has been established in the country since 1999, with respect to the zoning of the presidency and other top-tier political positions.” “This, we think, is essential to build a more united Nigeria where all citizens will feel connected to, and therefore willing to sacrifice for. “…We wish to note that for the presidency in 2023, what is fair and equitable is not only a power-shift in respect of the geo-political zone, but also a shift in respect of faith. “We therefore demand that all the political parties in the country, especially the two major ones – the APC and PDP – reserve their presidential tickets for Southern Christians in 2023,” it said.  The Nigeria Equity Group (NEG) yesterday demanded that the position of the President should go to a southern Christian in 2023 after the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari. This is imperative in the interest of equity and justice, the group said. The NEG, which describes itself as a collection of patriotic Nigerians from all walks of life with membership that cuts across the six geo-political zones of the country, said this in a statement by its Convener, Emeka Nwosu and Secretary, Alhaji Mubarak Muhammed. It stressed that for the sake of equity and justice, Nigeria must “maintain the political balance that has been established in the country since 1999, with respect to the zoning of the presidency and other top-tier political positions.” “This, we think, is essential to build a more united Nigeria where all citizens will feel connected to, and therefore willing to sacrifice for. “…We wish to note that for the presidency in 2023, what is fair and equitable is not only a power-shift in respect of the geo-political zone, but also a shift in respect of faith. “We therefore demand that all the political parties in the country, especially the two major ones – the APC and PDP – reserve their presidential tickets for Southern Christians in 2023,” it said. 