A middle-aged man was crushed by a tipper in Onitsha, Anambra State. The truck, a blue MAN Diesel, was without registration number. According to witnesses, the truck driver drove against traffic and eventually crushed the man who was crossing the expressway after alighting from a tricycle. The Ag. Education Officer of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Anambra State Command, Mr. Musa Kamal, while confirming the incident, said the crash involved three men, including the crushed victim who was taken to Toronto Hospital, Onitsha, by men of the Nigeria Police Force before the arrival of FRSC rescue team. He said the accident happened at about 11:40 am and that the corpse of the victim had been deposited at the morgue in the same hospital after doctors’ confirmation. Meanwhile, the state Sector Commandant of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Anambra State, Mr. Andrew Kumapayi, while sending his condolences to the family of the deceased, warned motorists, especially truck drivers, to desist from route violation as the corps would not take it lightly with anyone caught driving against traffic.  A middle-aged man was crushed by a tipper in Onitsha, Anambra State. The truck, a blue MAN Diesel, was without registration number. According to witnesses, the truck driver drove against traffic and eventually crushed the man who was crossing the expressway after alighting from a tricycle. The Ag. Education Officer of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Anambra State Command, Mr. Musa Kamal, while confirming the incident, said the crash involved three men, including the crushed victim who was taken to Toronto Hospital, Onitsha, by men of the Nigeria Police Force before the arrival of FRSC rescue team. He said the accident happened at about 11:40 am and that the corpse of the victim had been deposited at the morgue in the same hospital after doctors’ confirmation. Meanwhile, the state Sector Commandant of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Anambra State, Mr. Andrew Kumapayi, while sending his condolences to the family of the deceased, warned motorists, especially truck drivers, to desist from route violation as the corps would not take it lightly with anyone caught driving against traffic. 