The umbrella body of women in the North, Jama’iyar Matan Arewa (JMA), has said its women have problems in accessing various loans. JMA, therefore, engaged representatives from the Nigerian Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Leading (NIRSAL), Guaranty Trust Bank, First Bank and the Kaduna State Government on ways to enable women access the various funds being made available. The President of JMA, Hajiya Rabi Musa Saulawa, said women were the lifeline of the society and that they should be empowered so that they could take care of their homes. “Women have been having problems accessing the various loans being offered by the federal and state governments. So I decided to engage representatives of some banks, NIRSAL, the Kaduna State Microfinance Bank and the Kaduna State Women and Empowerment Fund to tell us how we can access these loans.” She further said the government could initiate an easier method; one that does not require them to register with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) or even have a Bank Verification Number (BVN) in order for rural women to be able to access the loans. The umbrella body of women in the North, Jama’iyar Matan Arewa (JMA), has said its women have problems in accessing various loans. JMA, therefore, engaged representatives from the Nigerian Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Leading (NIRSAL), Guaranty Trust Bank, First Bank and the Kaduna State Government on ways to enable women access the various funds being made available. The President of JMA, Hajiya Rabi Musa Saulawa, said women were the lifeline of the society and that they should be empowered so that they could take care of their homes. “Women have been having problems accessing the various loans being offered by the federal and state governments. So I decided to engage representatives of some banks, NIRSAL, the Kaduna State Microfinance Bank and the Kaduna State Women and Empowerment Fund to tell us how we can access these loans.” She further said the government could initiate an easier method; one that does not require them to register with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) or even have a Bank Verification Number (BVN) in order for rural women to be able to access the loans.