The Edo State Caretaker Committee Chairman of the APC, retired Col. David Imuse, has called on Governor Godwin Obaseki to resign from office over what he described as insecurity and lack of ideas to run government. He said in a statement that the call became necessary because the governor was failing in his duty of protecting the lives of Edo people. He listed Governor Obaseki’s offences to include an alleged penchant for disobeying court orders and decision to plunge Edo State into more indebtedness with recent clandestine borrowing of N25 billion from the capital market as the reasons for the call. Responding, the state chapter of the PDP said opposition politics required intelligence, tact and not childish tantrums displayed by the state APC under Imuse. A statement by its Publicity Secretary, Chris Osa Nehikhare, said APC had resorted to a wild goose chase to oust the governor, running “from pillar to post to undo the will of Edo people”. Nehikhare said the federal government under the leadership of the APC was solely responsible for the control of the police, Department of State Services (DSS), and the army among others, stressing that placing the responsibility for security on the laps of Governor Obaseki alone showed mischief and crass ignorance. He said the N25 billion loan Imuse mentioned was a loan secured by the state government to develop and revitalize critical infrastructures and was approved by the State House of Assembly. On court disobedience, the PDP said the state government had filed an appeal and stay of execution on the judgement. The Edo State Caretaker Committee Chairman of the APC, retired Col. David Imuse, has called on Governor Godwin Obaseki to resign from office over what he described as insecurity and lack of ideas to run government. He said in a statement that the call became necessary because the governor was failing in his duty of protecting the lives of Edo people. He listed Governor Obaseki’s offences to include an alleged penchant for disobeying court orders and decision to plunge Edo State into more indebtedness with recent clandestine borrowing of N25 billion from the capital market as the reasons for the call. Responding, the state chapter of the PDP said opposition politics required intelligence, tact and not childish tantrums displayed by the state APC under Imuse. A statement by its Publicity Secretary, Chris Osa Nehikhare, said APC had resorted to a wild goose chase to oust the governor, running “from pillar to post to undo the will of Edo people”. Nehikhare said the federal government under the leadership of the APC was solely responsible for the control of the police, Department of State Services (DSS), and the army among others, stressing that placing the responsibility for security on the laps of Governor Obaseki alone showed mischief and crass ignorance. He said the N25 billion loan Imuse mentioned was a loan secured by the state government to develop and revitalize critical infrastructures and was approved by the State House of Assembly. On court disobedience, the PDP said the state government had filed an appeal and stay of execution on the judgement.