The All Progressives Congress (APC) has postponed the new membership registration and revalidation exercise earlier scheduled to commence this Saturday, to second week of January, 2021. Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Governor Mai Mala Buni, who was represented by the Secretary of the Committee, John Akpanudoedehe, told newsmen at the APC National Secretariat on Thursday in Abuja that the postponement was on grounds of the timing. “As you are all aware, the Membership Registration, Update and Revalidation Exercise of our great party was supposed to commence on Saturday, December 12, 2020. “On account of several factors, however, including the fast-approaching Christmas and end of year celebrations; as well as the interest of our Christian members; and the objective of ensuring maximum participation, the CECPC has decided to shift the date of the exercise to the second week of January 2021. “The CECPC sincerely regrets any inconveniences that may arise out of the change in date; but appeals for the understanding of the public, in the interest of preparing a solid foundation for a successful exercise. “The party wishes you all; as well as members of the public, a peaceful and rewarding Yuletide, and end of year celebration,” he said. The timeline given the CECPC was to expire on December 25, but the APC’s National Executive Committee (NEC)extended it on Tuesday for another six months period that would terminate on June 30, 2021. Among other issues, the reason given by the party was for the committee to complete membership revalidation and registration of new members, but competent sources said the window will most importantly afford the party opportunity to resolve contentious issues zoning inclusive. The All Progressives Congress (APC) has postponed the new membership registration and revalidation exercise earlier scheduled to commence this Saturday, to second week of January, 2021. Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Governor Mai Mala Buni, who was represented by the Secretary of the Committee, John Akpanudoedehe, told newsmen at the APC National Secretariat on Thursday in Abuja that the postponement was on grounds of the timing. “As you are all aware, the Membership Registration, Update and Revalidation Exercise of our great party was supposed to commence on Saturday, December 12, 2020. “On account of several factors, however, including the fast-approaching Christmas and end of year celebrations; as well as the interest of our Christian members; and the objective of ensuring maximum participation, the CECPC has decided to shift the date of the exercise to the second week of January 2021. “The CECPC sincerely regrets any inconveniences that may arise out of the change in date; but appeals for the understanding of the public, in the interest of preparing a solid foundation for a successful exercise. “The party wishes you all; as well as members of the public, a peaceful and rewarding Yuletide, and end of year celebration,” he said. The timeline given the CECPC was to expire on December 25, but the APC’s National Executive Committee (NEC)extended it on Tuesday for another six months period that would terminate on June 30, 2021. Among other issues, the reason given by the party was for the committee to complete membership revalidation and registration of new members, but competent sources said the window will most importantly afford the party opportunity to resolve contentious issues zoning inclusive.