The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, yesterday, said the country cannot move forward without restructuring. He said: “I think the government should do the needful about moving this country forward. What is happening now is as a result of the problems we created for ourselves. Nigeria cannot move forward if we do not restructure into regions. If Nigeria is not restructured into regions, the country may break in two to three years because there is no way you can postpone the evil day.” He, however, expressed optimism that the country would recover from the impact of the COVID-19 in 2021. Speaking in Lagos during the second edition of the Aare Onakakanfo Christmas Carol, Adams described the year 2020 as “a turbulent year.” He said the closure of Nigeria’s borders was “a costly mistake” which contributed to the present recession. He tasked the federal government to put policies in place that would encourage true federalism and better the lives of the populace. Aare Gani Adams, who condemned the culture of increment in prices of goods and consumable items during festive periods in Nigeria, called on the federal government to spread joy by providing necessary facilities to ameliorate hardship as well as providing effective security across the nation, especially around recreational centres and churches. The Yoruba leader, however, charged Christians to uphold the spirit of the season by extending love.  The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, yesterday, said the country cannot move forward without restructuring. He said: “I think the government should do the needful about moving this country forward. What is happening now is as a result of the problems we created for ourselves. Nigeria cannot move forward if we do not restructure into regions. If Nigeria is not restructured into regions, the country may break in two to three years because there is no way you can postpone the evil day.” He, however, expressed optimism that the country would recover from the impact of the COVID-19 in 2021. Speaking in Lagos during the second edition of the Aare Onakakanfo Christmas Carol, Adams described the year 2020 as “a turbulent year.” He said the closure of Nigeria’s borders was “a costly mistake” which contributed to the present recession. He tasked the federal government to put policies in place that would encourage true federalism and better the lives of the populace. Aare Gani Adams, who condemned the culture of increment in prices of goods and consumable items during festive periods in Nigeria, called on the federal government to spread joy by providing necessary facilities to ameliorate hardship as well as providing effective security across the nation, especially around recreational centres and churches. The Yoruba leader, however, charged Christians to uphold the spirit of the season by extending love. 