Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has assured customers within its franchise area of steady power supply during the yuletide season as it raised a special rapid response team towards this. In a statement by the General Manager, Corporate Communications, Oyebode Fadipe, the Distribution Company (DisCo) said during the yuletide season, the rapid response team will reinforce and strengthen the existing structure, so as to enable them to respond to customers’ complaints speedily. “We recognise the fact that the demand for electricity always increases during the festive season just as customers have zero tolerance for interruptions as always. “That is why we have set up the special rapid response team that will respond to complaints quickly in order to clear whatever fault that is reported.” While wishing customers a merry Christmas and a prosperous new year, AEDC urged them to adhere strictly to the safety protocols associated with the use of electricity and resist the urge to resort to unlawful use of electricity. “Just as we are committed to uninterrupted power supply, customers too must be committed to a tradition of paying for the electricity they consume as this is a critical survival determinant for the industry. AEDC will however not hesitate to disconnect customers that fail to settle their electricity bills accurately and at the appropriate time,” AEDC noted. The DisCo said the national mass metering programme was progressing, noting that it was ready to provide metres to all customers who do not have one or whose meters are malfunctioning. Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has assured customers within its franchise area of steady power supply during the yuletide season as it raised a special rapid response team towards this. In a statement by the General Manager, Corporate Communications, Oyebode Fadipe, the Distribution Company (DisCo) said during the yuletide season, the rapid response team will reinforce and strengthen the existing structure, so as to enable them to respond to customers’ complaints speedily. “We recognise the fact that the demand for electricity always increases during the festive season just as customers have zero tolerance for interruptions as always. “That is why we have set up the special rapid response team that will respond to complaints quickly in order to clear whatever fault that is reported.” While wishing customers a merry Christmas and a prosperous new year, AEDC urged them to adhere strictly to the safety protocols associated with the use of electricity and resist the urge to resort to unlawful use of electricity. “Just as we are committed to uninterrupted power supply, customers too must be committed to a tradition of paying for the electricity they consume as this is a critical survival determinant for the industry. AEDC will however not hesitate to disconnect customers that fail to settle their electricity bills accurately and at the appropriate time,” AEDC noted. The DisCo said the national mass metering programme was progressing, noting that it was ready to provide metres to all customers who do not have one or whose meters are malfunctioning.