First Bank of Nigeria Limited, has announced a digital campaign, “Mask Up, Stay Safe” to encourage everyone to consciously protect one another against the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement, it said the digital campaign is designed to employ a fun approach to urge and engage its stakeholders on the need to observe the safety and precautionary guidelines during the festive season. The “Mask Up, Stay Safe” digital campaign is part of First Bank’s December activities, which kicked off on the 7th December 2020 themed: “12 Days of Christmas and 12 Days of Kindness”. Speaking on the campaign, Dr Adesola Adeduntan, the CEO of First Bank said, “In the spirit of walking the talk, I have uploaded my Instagram story with the virtual face mask and I crave your indulgence to join me in doing the same.” “This campaign is targeted at informing our customers and the general public that staying safe and protected through face mask-wearing is paramount now, more than ever, as it is a way of mitigating the unforeseen tragedy of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Stay Safe First!” He concluded. First Bank of Nigeria Limited, has announced a digital campaign, “Mask Up, Stay Safe” to encourage everyone to consciously protect one another against the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement, it said the digital campaign is designed to employ a fun approach to urge and engage its stakeholders on the need to observe the safety and precautionary guidelines during the festive season. The “Mask Up, Stay Safe” digital campaign is part of First Bank’s December activities, which kicked off on the 7th December 2020 themed: “12 Days of Christmas and 12 Days of Kindness”. Speaking on the campaign, Dr Adesola Adeduntan, the CEO of First Bank said, “In the spirit of walking the talk, I have uploaded my Instagram story with the virtual face mask and I crave your indulgence to join me in doing the same.” “This campaign is targeted at informing our customers and the general public that staying safe and protected through face mask-wearing is paramount now, more than ever, as it is a way of mitigating the unforeseen tragedy of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Stay Safe First!” He concluded.