The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Oyo State Command, Thursday, buried one of its officers who died while on a mission to rescue kidnapped expatriates in Ibadan, Oyo State. Oyewole Segun Benjamin and one other person were killed during the rescue mission in Ibadan. Public Relations Officer of the command, Mr. Olusegun Oluwole, confirmed the death, saying Mr. Benjamin died while on an official duty to rescue kidnapped victims last week. He said the officer was laid to rest at his house in Ibadan. Oluwole said, “Oyo State Command Armed-Squad Unit Inspector of Corps (IC), Oyewole Segun Benjamin, was laid to rest yesterday, the 17th of December, 2020. “The late officer who was on his secondment to the State Joint Security Task Force (Operation Burst) while on an official duty to rescue the Lebanese kidnapped at Panorama Farm Mekun, Oke Alaro, fell to the bullet of the gunmen that laid ambush for the team on Saturday. “He is survived by an aged parent, siblings, wife and children.” The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Oyo State Command, Thursday, buried one of its officers who died while on a mission to rescue kidnapped expatriates in Ibadan, Oyo State. Oyewole Segun Benjamin and one other person were killed during the rescue mission in Ibadan. Public Relations Officer of the command, Mr. Olusegun Oluwole, confirmed the death, saying Mr. Benjamin died while on an official duty to rescue kidnapped victims last week. He said the officer was laid to rest at his house in Ibadan. Oluwole said, “Oyo State Command Armed-Squad Unit Inspector of Corps (IC), Oyewole Segun Benjamin, was laid to rest yesterday, the 17th of December, 2020. “The late officer who was on his secondment to the State Joint Security Task Force (Operation Burst) while on an official duty to rescue the Lebanese kidnapped at Panorama Farm Mekun, Oke Alaro, fell to the bullet of the gunmen that laid ambush for the team on Saturday. “He is survived by an aged parent, siblings, wife and children.”