The immediate past National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole has said he would not return as the party’s helmsman even if a court of competent jurisdiction ordered the party to reinstate him. He said, “That chapter of my political life is closed.” Oshiomhole, a former governor of Edo state while reacting to a suit filed by a former National Vice Chairman of the party (South South), Hilliard Eta, in a statement on Monday night said it was ridiculous for anyone to think that he was behind the suit. Eta in a suit he filed on November 26, 2020, through his lawyer Onyechi Ikpeazu (SAN),  is challenging the dissolution of the Oshiomhole-led NWC which he was part of. The Adams Oshimhole-led NWC was dissolved by NEC, on June 25, 2020, over an alleged abuse of office, while the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee was inaugurated to take charge of the day-to-day running of the party and to organise a national convention within six months. But Oshiomhole said, “In reporting the legal action taken by a member of the dissolved National Working  Committee (NWC) of the APC (Eta), some attributions have been made to the effect that the plaintiff is an ‘ally of Oshiomhole’ or an ‘associate of Oshiomhole.’ “The court documents are clear on who is the plaintiff. For the avoidance of doubt, the 21-member NWC under my leadership largely worked cohesively and harmoniously. The only exceptions were those of the three members used by forces desperate to take control of the party. They contrived a crisis and abused the judicial process to undermine the constitution and integrity of the party.” “Even if another NEC decides or a court order reverses the dissolution, with utmost humility I will decline to return as APC chairman,” Oshiomhole said. The immediate past National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole has said he would not return as the party’s helmsman even if a court of competent jurisdiction ordered the party to reinstate him. He said, “That chapter of my political life is closed.” Oshiomhole, a former governor of Edo state while reacting to a suit filed by a former National Vice Chairman of the party (South South), Hilliard Eta, in a statement on Monday night said it was ridiculous for anyone to think that he was behind the suit. Eta in a suit he filed on November 26, 2020, through his lawyer Onyechi Ikpeazu (SAN),  is challenging the dissolution of the Oshiomhole-led NWC which he was part of. The Adams Oshimhole-led NWC was dissolved by NEC, on June 25, 2020, over an alleged abuse of office, while the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee was inaugurated to take charge of the day-to-day running of the party and to organise a national convention within six months. But Oshiomhole said, “In reporting the legal action taken by a member of the dissolved National Working  Committee (NWC) of the APC (Eta), some attributions have been made to the effect that the plaintiff is an ‘ally of Oshiomhole’ or an ‘associate of Oshiomhole.’ “The court documents are clear on who is the plaintiff. For the avoidance of doubt, the 21-member NWC under my leadership largely worked cohesively and harmoniously. The only exceptions were those of the three members used by forces desperate to take control of the party. They contrived a crisis and abused the judicial process to undermine the constitution and integrity of the party.” “Even if another NEC decides or a court order reverses the dissolution, with utmost humility I will decline to return as APC chairman,” Oshiomhole said.