The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday withdrew its petition against the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) before the Bayelsa Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja. The PDP had challenged the emergency of Mr David Lyon of the APC as the duly elected governor in the November 2019 governorship election before the Feb. 13, Supreme Court’s verdict. At the resumed sitting yesterday, counsel to the petitioner, John Okoriko informed the three-man panel headed by Justice Muhammad Sirajo that he had an application before the tribunal. Okoriko further said that the application which was dated and filed Feb 18, premised on six grounds and supported by a 14- paragraphs affidavit. In the application, the counsel prayed for an order granting the petitioner a leave to withdraw the petition against the respondents in view of the Supreme Court’s judgment of Feb. 13 which declared the petitioner and its candidate  Sen. Douye Diri as the winner of the Nov.16 governorship election. The application also urged the tribunal to deem the application as properly filed and adopt same for the interest of peace and justice for Bayelsa. Sirajo in response however said the petitioner could   not sought to withdraw its application in the interest of peace and justice, but on the ground that the petition was incompetent based on the present turn of event. Ibrahim Bawa, counsel to INEC on his part said he had no objection to the application. Counsel to APC, P. Abah equally said in pursuant to Supreme Court’s judgment, he had no objection to the petitioner withdrawing its petition. Sirajo therefore said ” we have noted your observations and in absence of no objection, the application is granted. The petition is hereby struck out”. (NAN) Bayelsa governorship tribunal: PDP withdraws petition against INEC, APC Taraba: Tribunal to grants leave to APC for relisting of dismissed guber petition Governorship tribunals:  Four verdicts Nigerians await