President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, has charged African leaders to prioritize citizen-oriented policies in their economic development agenda, saying that growth without food for the poor will worsen the poverty level on the continent. Adesina, who declared this while unveiling the continent’s development finance institution’s  African Economic Outlook (AEO) 2020, noted that while it is commendable that Africa’s economies were growing strongly, growth alone cannot meet the needs of the continent’s poorest citizens, because “nobody eats GDP,” A news report circulated by Africa Press Organisation (APO) Group on behalf of the Bank on the position of the AfDB’s President on recent economic growth being recorded in some of the economies, quoted the development banker as saying that as desirable as the growth remains, growth must, however “be visible. Growth must be equitable. Growth must be felt in the lives of people.” Commenting on the report, the Bank’s Director of the Macroeconomic Policy, Forecasting and Research Department, Hanan Morsy, said: “Africa is blessed with resources, but its future lies in its people…education is the great equaliser. Only by developing our workforce will we make a dent in poverty, close the income gap between rich and poor, and adopt new technologies to create jobs in knowledge-intensive sectors.” Specifically, the AEO 2020 reflected that the continent’s economies were growing well, higher than the global average, projecting a steady rise in growth in Africa from 3.4% in 2019 to 3.9% in 2020 and 4.1% in 2021. According to the report, these figures do not tell the whole story as across the continent, the poor are not seeing enough of the benefits of robust growth. While noting that relatively few African countries posted significant declines in extreme poverty and inequality, which remain higher than in other regions of the world, the report showed that inclusive growth occurred in only 18 of 48 African countries. To consolidate on the modest achievements recorded in the economies, the report canvassed the  need for governments in the continent to increase investments in education as well as progressive universalism in education spending-setting high priorities for the poor and disadvantaged and focusing on basic education first where social returns are highest. Other recommendations in the report include improving access to education in remote areas, incentives such as free uniforms and text books, banning child labour and improving teaching standards. To better match skills with job opportunities, the report recommends that governments need to develop a demand-driven education system in tune with rapidly emerging jobs in the private sector, including software engineers, marketing specialists and data analysts. Adesina assumes duty at AfDB, promises to curb inequality ECOWAS backs Adesina’s 2nd term bid for AfDB presidency Move from youth empowerment to youth investments – AfDB tells African leaders