Protests over the killing of a footballer with Remo FC, Tiyamiyu Kazeem, in Sagamu, Ogun State, yesterday turned violent and claimed two youths in the area. Kazeem, who was the Assistant Captain of the football club based in Sagamu, was allegedly killed by an operative of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad on Saturday along the Abeokuta-Sagamu expressway after the alleged killer and his fellow SARS officers had arrested and accused the footballer of being an internet fraudster (Yahoo boy). The police command in the state claimed that the footballer, nicknamed Kaka, attempted to escape after arrest and was knocked down by an oncoming vehicle. But the player’s teammate, Sanni Abubakar, who was with him at the time of arrest, maintained that one of the SARS men pushed Kazeem out of the car and the footballer got knocked down by a passing vehicle. The protesters, who included women and youths, took to the streets yesterday to express their grievances over the footballer’s death. They stormed the palace of the Akarigbo and paramount ruler of Remoland, Oba Babatunde Ajayi, demanding justice. The protesters condemned what they called “incessant brutality and indiscriminate arrests” by law enforcement agents in the town and its environs. The former governor of Ogun State, Gbenga Daniel, was sighted at the palace making efforts to calm the situation. Apart from Daniel, a lawmaker representing the Remo Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Adewunmi Onanuga and the state Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Funmi Efuwape, were at the palace to appeal to the protesters. Armed policemen were said to have been deployed in the town to forestall a breakdown of law and order. The atmosphere in Sagamu was tense as the protesters moved from one point to the other chanting anti-SARS slogans. It was learnt that the police fired live bullets to disperse the protesting youths, two of whom were hit. When contacted, the spokesman of the state police command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed, “Some people protested in Sagamu. In the course of the protest, they advanced towards the police, but the policemen dispersed them.” Although the police PRO claimed he didn’t have any information on the death of two of the protesters, video recordings circulating yesterday on the social media showed the protesters and the bodies of the two men as they were being wheeled away to a hospital. The state government had promised to investigate the killing of Kazeem and ensure that necessary action is taken.  Ogun: Two feared dead, as Sagamu boils over killing of footballer SARS operative allegedly kills footballer in Ogun SARS operative allegedly kills footballer in Ogun