Capt. Abdullahi Sidi is the Acting Director-General, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). In this interview with Daily Trust, he speaks on sundry issues in the nation’s aviation sector, including plans to introduce new minimum aircraft requirements for operators in the near future.  How would you describe your experience so far as the Acting DG? So far, so good. It has been a continuous process. Government is a continuum. My appointment as the acting DG is to fill in the vacuum before the coming of the substantive DG who is awaiting screening by the Senate. Every day we try to improve because we have challenges, especially in the increasingly dynamic world of aviation.  Recently, you took a regulatory action against Turkish Air. We understand you had to act because of their history of alleged maltreatment of Nigerian passengers. But in the face of the myriad of complaints against the carrier, why did it take the NCAA so long to act? I really wouldn’t like to talk much on this Turkish Airline issue. Of course, there were complaints from Nigerian passengers on the treatment being meted to them by the airline and we said based on the fact that the airline has been in operation in Nigeria for a while, and we know how much business they are making, they should be able to improve. So, that is why we took that action. We took that action out of necessity because our major responsibility is the safety, security and comfort of passengers in the Nigerian airspace. We had a meeting with the airline before we wrote the letter. The letter was a warning that if they don’t improve, we will suspend their operations. After the warning, they are trying to improve. The passengers that are flying with Turkish Airlines now have seen the improvement. We were not happy with them but now we are happy with them based on the new improvements. The action didn’t just come out of the blues, we followed due process and we engaged the airline from time to time. We don’t just take drastic action except it has to do with direct implications on flight operations. We are ready to do it with any airline violating the rights of the passengers.  How compliant are the other foreign airlines because there are cases of passengers’ shoddy treatment with the other foreign airlines. Are we expecting more sanctions on other airlines? We have a directorate of consumer protection dealing with customer issues. Also, Part 19 in our civil aviation Act deals with passengers’ rights. Passengers can read that and know their rights but we are about to print pamphlets for passengers to know their rights. So, if there is any issue that the passenger is not happy with, the passenger can write or send email to the directorate and I can guarantee you the consumer directorate will follow through. We don’t sit on complaints. Some passengers don’t give a damn. Some complain and we take it up.  Local airlines are not spared either. Perhaps they are worse in terms of service delivery and the NCAA doesn’t seem to do much. There are countless cases of arbitral flight delays, cancellations and flight mergers without even the courtesy of informing the customers and without compensation (cuts in..) No. I disagree with you. As much as aviation operation is supposed to be unique, there are several challenges. Sometimes you don’t blame the airline operators when there are delays. There are so many variables that can cause delays. An aircraft is a machine. So, many things can fail. For instance, if you have four aircraft and you are involved in scheduled operations, if one suddenly develops a fault, all of your operations will be affected for that day. Sometimes it could be due to bad weather. But over time, Nigerian airlines have improved. There are more domestic airlines flying in Nigeria now and this means more passengers. During the festive seasons, passenger traffic rise. So, operators also would want to maximize the opportunity. It is a challenge that happens once in a while.  Earlier, you mentioned that the NCAA was concerned about safety, comfort and security. As a regulator, I believe you also look out for critical infrastructure at the airport. Now the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja airport has just one runway. That obviously is risky for any busy airport. The few times we had mishaps on that runway, the airport got shut down. Are you engaging FAAN to make sure it speeds up the completion of the second runway? Building a second runway in Abuja is in the pipeline. They are working on it. The logistics are in place. A second runway in Abuja is mandatory. We are working on it. It is not FAAN alone; it is a government project. The government has identified that building a second runway in Abuja is absolutely necessary. But as you know, this infrastructure costs a lot of money. Once the money is available, it will be built.  Where are you now on regulation of drones? We are creating a software portal where you can log in and see the requirements to operate a drone or reportedly piloted aircraft as it were. That is the licensing requirement, the registration requirement so you can apply online. You will be allowed based on the weight of the drone. We are working in conjunction with the Office of the National Security Adviser and the Air Force.  I understand airlines are owing the NCAA huge sums of money. How much is the current debt and what is being done to recover the debts? Yes, we are being owed but it is not too much money. In business, you owe and you are owed as well. But we have taken many serious measures to recover the money being owed us. We do what we call ‘no pay, no service.’ If you are owing NCAA and you have not paid, you access service only after you pay. So, a lot of operators are complying. It is working for us.  Last year, the aviation unions had a running battle with the NCAA management over improved conditions of service. How would you describe the relationship with your staff now? Yes! It has been resolved. We promoted some staff and welfare of our employees has improved. It is work in progress and the staff for now, haven’t complained.  There has been this argument that most local airlines are not big and that they should merge to produce stronger airlines to favourably compete and serve the market better. In the near term, would the NCAA be pursuing a recapitalization plan by increasing the minimum number of aircraft required to operate an airline in Nigeria? I believe probably down the line we may have to get that policy in line. We can pursue that plan. But in Nigeria, it is not easy to bring two or three people to merge a business. So, except there is a government policy that increases the number of aircraft to start an airline in Nigeria from the current three serviceable Nigerian-registered aircraft. But we may, in the near future, increase it to five. If you have capacity to operate five serviceable aircraft is better. Those without that capability will be forced to merge or leave the market. But for now, the Nigerian environment is not that easy. NCAA downgrades First Nation operations from schedule to charter Improving air safety amid incidents Taxes, expensive fuel are crippling domestic airlines