Four persons on Tuesday lost their lives in a ghastly motor accident at the Dumbin Rauga axis along the Zaria – Kaduna road in Kaduna state. The Assistant Corps Commandant of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Zaria Unit, Abubakar Murabus Tata, confirmed this to Daily Trust. Tata said the accident occurred when a trailer, which was on high speed, attempted to dodge a pothole but skidded and rammed into a Toyota Hiace bus that was carrying 10 persons. He said one person was burnt beyond recognition; one was burnt to death while the remaining two died on the way to hospital as a result of burn injuries. He added: “Presently, six persons are receiving treatment at the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital (ABUTH), Zaria. “There were only two persons in the trailer; the driver and his boy. Both of them survived. The casualties were all passengers of the bus. We received a distress call around 12:30pm and we ran to the scene and evacuated the victims. “Motorists need to be patient since we all know that the road is undergoing reconstruction. “However, we record accidents on that road almost on daily basis and lives are involved. From what we have discovered, the accident was caused by over-speeding.” Our reporter gathered that a former Secretary of the Kaduna state council of the Nigerian Union of Journalist (NUJ), Dominic Uzu, was among the victims of the ghastly accident. Mr. Uzu was conveying his dauther who just got admitted into the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria to school when the accident occurred. Our correspondent gathered that it took the efforts of Good Samaritans who broke the window and brought his daughter out alive, as Mr. Uzu couldn’t survive the accident. The late Uzu has held various positions in the field of journalism before his untimely death. He is survived by his wife and four children – three female and one male. 10 killed, 31 injured in Zaria auto crash Accident claims 19 ‎lives in Bauchi Road accidents kill 327,  injure 372 in 3 months