The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) has advised airlines operating in Nigeria to end all forms of abuses characterizing their relationship with air travellers in the country or face sanctions. The warning followed the commission’s parley with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), the apex regulatory authority in aviation,  to discuss issues of widespread consumer rights abuse in the sector. The FCCPC Director-General, Babatunde Irukera,said that it was high time airlines stopped violation of passengers’ rights. The commission is particularly worried about the huge cases of missing luggage recorded especially by foreign carriers, The DG in a  statement posted on the commission’s Twitter handle on Thursday stated: “People arrive in this country without their wedding clothes, and the purpose they came home was to get married. People are about to start their lives, and they start on that kind of note…And you carry on like it’s no big deal. “Aviation hasn’t felt FCCPC so badly, because we have been deferring to our brothers in NCAA, With our relationship (with NCAA), the nature and its structure, coming together strongly, it won’t be business as usual”, he added. Irukera hinted about tinkering with the laws to make the airlines more responsible to passengers, adding that anyone who has the appetite for testing the law will find out that we have the appetite for enforcing the law. “(We will) pull up that section of the law that says in addition to finding what is wrong, we will assess the injury and then determine the compensation. And I have the liver for it. Let it it not be the passenger who is going to struggle in court for what is rightfully theirs. “That conduct on the part of the airline takes it out of whatever the convention says, because your conduct is wilful,… and it is reckless”, the DG stressed. In line with the ICAO convention which Nigeria is signatory to, the Consumer Protection Directorate of the NCAA is charged with the responsibility of handling issues relating to passenger rights in aviation. Daily Trust reports that the NCAA through its Consumer Affairs Directorate has been addressing matters bothering on the rights of consumers in line with the convention of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO).  ‘Why passengers resort to physical attacks on airline personnel’ Passengers in dire straits as airlines play danfo tactics Flight delays: Stakeholders seek greater sanction for airlines