Stakeholders in Sokoto have condemned the rampant cases of rape in the state and called for measures to tackle the menace. The State Hisbah Commission had revealed that it recorded over 600 cases of rape last year. Commenting on the issue, the Chief Imam of Dambuwa Ustaz Abubakar Mohammed said: “The number is alarming and outrageous in an Islamic society like ours. “Even in societies where Islam is not accepted you can hardly record such number of rape cases.” The religious leader urged the relevant authorities to intensify efforts at ensuring appropriate punishment for anyone found guilty of the act. “Many youths are roaming the streets with no requisite parental guidance, while female children engaged in hawking, are exposed to sexual abuse. Parents of such girls do not consider the world we are living in today.” “Parents should partner with government in giving their children close monitoring to avoid them getting into mischief by befriending bad elements in the name of peer groups.” The religious leader called for intensive prayers for Allah to come to the society’s rescue on such deplorable acts. A community leader in Sokoto North local government,  Ahmadu Gwagawo, who also expressed concern over the situation, attributed the rise in rape cases to a large number of youths who reached the age of getting married but are without jobs and means of getting married. “Many jobless, unmarried youths are roaming the streets, the desire keeps growing in them and they resort to committing the crime,” he said. He added that a large number of the rich in the society commit rape rampantly because they are not made to face the full wrath of the law. The leader urged more empowerment programmes for the youths to have income that can make them get married. Hajiya Hajara Momodu Executive Director, Association for Better Community Health, said the research conducted by her organisation on gender-based violence was mindboggling “We interviewed children 8 to 12 years old and it was too revealing, how relations in the home, their uncle, or the stepbrother, a neighbour who is very frequent in the home will just come around playing with them, eventually would take them somewhere and rape them. “There are some people who rape a girl and give her  N20,” she added. She said her organisation formed anti-rape vanguards in  Binji and Tangaza local government areas of the state to  track  cases of rape and report to the police. Dr Adamu Bello Kasarawa, the Commandant of the Sokoto state Hisbah Commission also noted: “In markets and other areas, you will find young girls .in the name of selling fura, hawking and through that, they establish such relationships and they are being sexually abused. It is the parents that subject them to that and exposed them to such problems. “Also, you find young girls in the bush trying to get some stalk, firewood to cook. This exposes them and makes them more prone to sexual abuse.” He called on the state government to empower the Hisbah Commission to tackle the social menace while stressing the need for security and  judicial officials to avoid being compromised. “They should not be involved in protecting people suspected of committing rape” He said the proposed Sexual Assault Referral Centre for women and girls  who experience violence and harmful practices to be established in the state could help in tackling the menace.  ‘Rape cases on the increase in Sokoto state’ ‘The more stringent punishment for rape the better’ Time for national summit on rape