The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Secondary Education Board (SEB) has warned principals of public schools in the territory to keep their environments clean or be sacked. Chairman of SEB Yahaya Musa Muhammad, who gave the warning during an emergency meeting of the board with principals of senior secondary schools on Wednesday, said the FCT minister is not happy with the sanitary conditions of schools. He lamented that some schools in the FCT were not fit for students to study in them. He, however, said monitoring will be intensified to ensure the principals took the management of the schools serious, as according to him, handling a school was not child’s play. “Our monitoring will be intensified and anybody who does not key in will be shown the way out. Do not leave any stone unturned in making our schools habitable. There should be no excuses, even on weekends, your schools should be clean. “Open defecation is not allowed; there should be functional and clean toilets. We have told you this severally and we expect results,” he said. The FCT minister, Muhammad Musa Bello, visited some schools last Saturday and expressed displeasure over poor hygiene in some of them. The SEB chair also emphasised that the “sledge hammer will descend on any principal who habours and shields those who sexually harass our students,” urging them to have eagle eyes and to fish out paedophiles amongst them. He also said the board has zero tolerance for cultism, stressing that any student caught will be dealt with. He advised principals to relate well with Divisional Police Officers (DPO) in their domains to help keep their schools safe. Vice President of All Nigeria Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS), FCT chapter Hajiya Fatima Muhammad apologised on behalf of the principals and promised to take corrective measures. She lamented that they have been warned severally and it was disheartening that they were still found wanting in their management of their respective schools.  FCT principals urged to inculcate morals in students SEB director embarks on inspection of schools Schools’ PTA tasked on projects execution