Top leaders of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kwara State yesterday visited Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq at the government house, Ilorin to pledge their loyalty and readiness to work with him. The party leaders, six suspended council chairmen, women and several youth leaders, lauded the governor’s leadership style, humility and attachment to the poor which they described as a breath of fresh air. Speaking during the visit, one of chieftains of the PDP, Obalola Suleiman said, “We can see a difference and people can feel that they have a government. The situation has changed in the area of road construction, water and health. “You have started very well and our people are happy. We urge you to continue along that path. We are willing to work with you for the overall interest of our state,” he said. Reacting, the state public relations officer of the PDP, Tunde Ashaolu, said members of the party who visited the governor were on their own. “Those people have been meeting with the APC in the state from time. They may say they want to decamp; it’s not a big deal to us. And it doesn’t mean that we’ve disowned them. They’ve made personal and voluntary choice. It’s their personal decision. For us, it’s nothing to worry about,” he said. Another leader of the party, Ben Duntoye, a former commissioner from Irepodun Local Government Area of the state, also lauded the governor describing him as a silent achiever. A press statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye said Governor AbdulRazaq commended the opposition leaders for the visit, adding that he sees everyone as critical stakeholders for a greater Kwara. “The situation we have found ourselves in Kwara is such that all hands must be on deck to move the state forward. We need everybody on board in this task. That is why I treat everyone as fellow Kwaran. “From the civil service to other sectors, my concern has been how to stabilise our state for posterity,” the governor said. Jonathan’s visit and the politics of Kwara Governors pledge loyalty to Jonathan Crises in APC will bring Atiku, G-5 govs back to PDP – Clark