Voice call and data networks in the villages and towns around country’s borders have been down due to lack of diesel to power the base stations there, Airtel Nigeria has said. Daily Trust reports that the Federal Government had stopped fuel tankers from delivering fuel to areas close to the borders. But the telecom companies said the epileptic power supply in the country is affecting their base transceiver stations (BTSs) in the border are now shutting down because there is not fuel to power them. BTS is a piece of equipment that facilitates wireless communication between user equipment and a network. Speaking in Lagos on Thursday on why there are still dropped calls and other network challenges in the country, the Vice President Network Operation of Airtel Nigeria, Dr Adedoyin Adeola said 20 percent of the company’s BTSs around the border areas was currently down. Adedoyin said this is presently affecting voice calls and data network, and by extension negatively impacting on the country’s economy. He said all the BSTs had dried up because they could not get fuel to keep them functional. “All of us the telecom companies are affected. We are not happy about it because our subscribers are affected and their businesses are affected as well”. We call on the Federal Government to please do something about the policy on fuel to border areas”,  he said. Apart from this, he said theft and damage to telecom equipment by thieves and Boko Haram were other challenges militating against hitch-free telecom services. He hinted that Boko Haram had damages 282 of Airtel BTSs in the North East of the country in recent time. The company recovered (repaired) 164 of it, but the insurgents again went back and damaged many of them after the repair. He also said construction companies had damaged the telecom companies’  fibre cables nationwide with Airtel recording  between July 2019 and February 12 this year 1022 incidents of fibre cuts. He called on the Federal Government to list telecom infrastructure as one of the Critical National Infrastructure (CNI), adding that if this is done, incidences of damage to telecom infrastructure would reduce. Border closure affecting telecom services – Airtel Concerns over delay in passage of telecoms infrastructure law Telecom sector plagued by inconsistent power supply, theft of equipment