President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday told members of the National Assembly that the public perception about them is negative. The president said Nigerians saw the lawmakers as people who got too much money for doing little work. He spoke at the National Assembly during the launch of the Green Chamber Magazine by the House of Representatives. Buhari, represented by Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed, said the introduction of the magazine would change the perception people had of the National Assembly. “Hitherto, the public perception of the National Assembly is that of a bicameral legislature where overly comfortable and highly over-paid members merely stuff wads of currency notes into their pockets for little work done. “This wrong perception has resulted partly from the lack of understanding of the enormous work of lawmakers, especially outside the glare of television cameras,” he said. He said the magazine would give the public access to correct information that would polish the image of the house and illuminate the great work members were doing. “Including the enormous work that goes into the passage of a bill as well as committee duties. In addition, it will help the house to tell its own story, rather than relying on others to take charge of their narrative. It is said that no one can tell your story better than you,” he said. Also speaking, the Director, Kenyan Law School, Patrick Lumumba has said that the lawmakers as representatives of their constituents must live up to expectations. “Now that you have been given the honour and privilege of serving Nigeria, now that Nigerians and Africans refer to you as honourable members, the question is: are you honourable members or horrible members? “The question as to whether you are honourable members is determined by the service that you render to the people,” he said. Why Nigerian legislators agitate over salary cut We'll disappoint those calling us rubber stamp lawmakers – Reps Bills Buhari has refused to sign, and why