Capital market operators and regulators have been urged to tackle market infractions, insider trading abuses and unclaimed dividends problem to boost investors’ confidence in the market. Segun Ajibola, Professor of Economics, Babcock University and immediate past President, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, gave the advice at the inauguration of a new governing council for the Institute of Capital Market Registrars (ICMR) in Lagos Ajibola said that market infractions – such as market manipulations –  insider trading and unclaimed dividends could hardly happen if operators and regulators would fully live up to their responsibilities. He said that ICMR members must maintain spotless registers of shareholders by devising means of updating the registers regularly to tackle identity management problems. Ajibola, who spoke on the topic ‘Service with Integrity – A Promise that Must be Kept’, said that ICMR must maintain accurate information of shareholders which will enable them provide maximum protection for investors and their shares. He added that they should resolve ownership matters that might arise in the event of death, and provide a way to deal with unclaimed dividends. “These are onerous tasks in the midst of the identity management problems the country is still grappling with,’’Ajibola said. Ajibola who further noted that It will be disastrous to every stakeholder if the operators compromise integrity in their dealings added that,  “All hands must be on deck to drive the capital market and sustain the growing level of confidence in the market by the public,’’Ajibola said. He said that if operators and regulators would play their roles as catalysts, the synergy between the capital and money markets would boost financial inclusion. Ajibola said that the synergy would help in cultivating savings habits and promoting investment culture in the country. Earlier, the NSE President, Mr Abimbola Ogunbanjo, hailed ICMR for its contributions to the development of the capital market. Ogunbanjo said that the ongoing NSE demutualisation, when completed, would further enhance the capital market by promoting corporate governance. He added that it would result in transparency  and attract strategic partners, investors and good quality issuers. Unclaimed dividends hit N51bn in December 2013 Shareholders task SEC, NSE on penalties to boost new listing Stock exchange, EFCC to tackle sharp practices