Fifty new trainees have graduated from the United Nations Development Fund-sponsored training organized at the Peugeot Automobile Nigeria Learning Centre from persons selected from the troubled North Eastern part of the country. The batch three trainees, including two women, acquired skills in Auto Mechanics, Panel beating, Welding and Spray Painting. Speaking at the graduation on Wednesday at the centre in Kaduna, the Director General, Mrs.  Elizabeth Mordi, commended the EU-UNDP for the laudable programme of youth empowerment aimed at facilitating the recovery of the crisis-affected communities with the goal to create a conducive environment for displaced population in that part of the country. She noted that the UNDP Technical Skills Acquisition Programme was assisting the North East communities and their youths to get to the path of full recovery from the socio-economic slump that the insurgency’s years-long activities have wreaked on the region. “EU-UNDP is helping vulnerable youths of the affected communities in improving the living standards of the victims of the insurgency in preparation for their re-integration into local socio-economic structures within their communities,” she stressed. “We are here to graduate 50 trainees who have been adequately trained in various trades and are ready to contribute meaningfully to the socio-economic advancement of their state and Nigeria at large. As an institute committed to equal opportunity and gender equality, PLC has promoted the empowerment of young women by training over 300 in the past years. “The unique aspect of PLC trainings is that all trainees go through compulsory ICT training to diploma level as well as our FRSC accredited PAN Driving School for Defensive Driving training. On his part, PAN Managing Director,  Alhaji Ibrahim Tanko assured that PAN will continue to initiate programmes that will continue to change lives in the North East and beyond. He expressed optimism that the graduates will be able to start their business and be gainfully employed based on the skills acquired from the programme.  79 IDPs graduate from UNDP Skill Acquisition Course EU, UNDP train 600 conflict-affected youth on vocational skills Insurgency: UNDP trains 547 Civilian JTF in N/East