Vice President YemiOsinbajo has called on stakeholders to lend more support and interventions towards the education of displaced children in the North East. Osinbajo was the Special Guest of Honour at the Atlantic Hall School’s 30th Anniversary Celebration and Launch of Endowment Fund for Indigent Scholars on Saturday in Lagos. The vice president said he and some friends had set up a fund and built schools accommodating no fewer than 1500 displaced children in the North East. He said that thousands of children, especially girls who had lost their parents in the North East, were still displaced. “Permit me to throw a challenge to the Board of trustees and all of us here; in Aug., 2015, I paid my first official visit to Maiduguri, Borno State to inspect the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and other facilities for the victims of the conflict in the Northeast. “We counted over 49,000 young children who had lost their parents; almost half of them girls; that was only in parts of the metropolis; there were thousands more. “The tragedy of conflict and its outcomes in poverty and displacement is stark; governments alone cannot handle it; there are international NGOs here and there but the local private response is still so little,” he said. On her part, the Wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari, lauded the wisdom of the founding sisters who conceived the vision of establishing school. Represented by Mrs Mary Paul, Managing Partner, Mopson Pharmaceuticals Limited, Buhari said she was heartily accepting being the Grand Matron of the Endowment Fund for Indigent Students. “Your story is success; as products of the institute have distinguished themselves in the society and in the world at large. “I am particularly impressed that the Atlantic Hall is not an elitist school but accommodates 20 per cent of its annual intake from the indigent  groups as a matter cooperate social responsibility through the empowerment fund,” she said. (NAN)  Borno IDP camps get learning facilities Hopes run high as North-East commission is set to rebuild WFP spends 95m dollars for food intervention in North-East