The Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has called on the National Assembly to declare a state of emergency on federal roads within the state, saying the bad state of the roads was impeding economic activities in the corridors that pass through the state. A statement issued yesterday by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Kunle Somorin, said Abiodun made the call when he received the Senate Committee on Works in his office. According to the statement, the governor noted that it was pertinent that a state of emergency be declared on federal roads in the state because of their terribly poor state. “I want to call on you to help us declare an emergency on the state of our federal roads. It is as if they are non-existent. It is important for people to be able to move between the states and the sub-region that share borders with us. We are appealing because it’s the only way we can continue to promote the economic development of our state. “Whatever it is that we do by bringing industries to Ogun State, the taxes are going to the federal purse. Whatever it is that we do directly or indirectly, the federal government is benefitting. So it is important for us to look out for ways and means to see how we can ensure that people can move with relative ease,” he said. The governor added that the population explosion being experienced in the country had made the six-lane road pattern on Lagos-Ibadan expressway, for instance, out-dated. He stressed that what is required would be, at least, a 10-lane road pattern, at the minimum. That, he said, should be considered by the federal government for the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, which he described as the busiest in the country. Abiodun added it was important for the federal government to modernise alternative roads like the Sagamu-Ikorodu road and Lagos-Ota-Abeookuta road. In his response, the Chairman, Senate Committee for Works, Senator Adamu Aliero, disclosed they were in the state to inspect all federal projects, particularly road projects. According to him, their on-the-spot assessment confirmed that immediate attention would be needed to give the people some relief. “We will encourage and give all the support required. In fact, we can even amend the laws if there’s any legislative intervention that it requires. We don’t see any reason why roads that are in bad shape should not be done by the states,” Aliero said.  Inside Abiodun’s seven months in Ogun Gov. Zulum meets Buhari, seeks additional support to tackle insurgency Niger insecurity: Stakeholders seek emergency declaration