Tudan Nasara, a community behind the famous Zuma Rock, along the Abuja- Kaduna highway in Niger State, is popular because of the activities of artisans, especially those who specialise in repairing tyres of articulated and earth-moving vehicles like bulldozers, graders, trailers, tankers and tippers. Drivers and owners of such vehicles also go there to buy refurbished tyres. Daily Trust Saturday learnt that faulty tyres bought from construction firms in Abuja are refurbished, thereby increasing their lifespan, while those that are irreparable are recycled into a number of useful items, such as vehicle bolts, seats, belts, among others. Also, iron extracts from condemned tyres, which can be converted into other items, such as bird cages and other things, are sold to recyclers. At the garage, which accommodated vulcanisers and motor mechanics, it was observed that everything in unused tyres is useful; nothing wastes. Artisans engage in different activities aimed at bringing the best out of used tyres. While some supply the faulty tyres from construction firms, others test the quality of finished work. Malam Abubakar Jibril, also known as Mai-taya, is one of the leaders of the workshop. Mai-taya, who was a mechanic before switching to the business seven years ago, explained that at least 50 persons rely on the workshop for livelihood. According to him, there are only two of such workshops in the whole country. The other one is located in Onitsha, Anambra State. He said the tyres they usually bought were not necessarily faulty; rather, when they are replaced by construction companies, they are auctioned. According to him, these companies have a policy of replacing tyres at a certain time, so they usually buy from them. He said some of the tyres are replaced over minor faults. “They usually invite us during auctioning. When we buy the tyres we work on them and sell to individuals. “There are some companies that are not fortunate enough to buy new tyres; hence they opt for our own. A new tyre of a pay-loader could cost between N300, 000 and as high as N800,000, depending on size and brand of the product. “We buy through auctioning from companies at the rate of N30,000. After we work on them, we sell at N120,000 to individuals or companies that cannot afford new ones. Mr. Fidelis Obinna, formerly a vulcaniser, said he had spent 10 years in the trade. He said the nature of work they do differ from that of their counterparts who deal on tyres of small vehicles. According to him, this category of artisans cannot operate openly because it involves activities that could endanger the lives of users. Speaking on their mode of operation, Obinna said, “Each tyre contains various types of iron, wire, nylon threads etc, each at the tyre edge, where it is joined with the wheel rim. “If we discover that any tyre has lost up to six or 10 of its iron threads, we don’t put it back as tubeless; we rather convert it into a tube form. Anyone that is not reparable is sold to recyclers who cut it into pieces for other uses. He also said they were patronised by individuals and companies who find their products cheaper and of high quality when compared to some new tyres in the market.’’ Another artisan, who preferred to be anonymous, alleged that apart from some small construction firms that patronise their products, security agents, such as policemen and officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) who operate close to the area, specifically at the Madalla u-turn, also patronise them. “When they first came here, we told them how we worked and sourced our materials. And they were satisfied, to the extent that they now bring their faulty tyres to repair in our workshop. If we patch a faulty portion of a tyre, it remains intact throughout its lifespan. Somewhere else might develop a problem in future, but not that particular portion we worked on. This is because we apply all the necessary things that would keep it strong. And it is even difficult to identify the portion we worked on,’’ he explained, saying they usually buy new raw materials like rubber from companies, which they use in working on faulty tyres He called on the Federal Government to assist them through trainings that would help them acquire modern technology and machineries. He assured that if adequately empowered, they could produce new tyres of high standard. “Before now, Nigeria produced tyres of different kinds, but all the industries are no longer producing. As we learnt, some of them have relocated to Ghana, where the government there is assisting them,’’ he said. Flat tyre? Get an inflator Patching up tyres with roadside vulcanizers ‘Retread tyres can compete safely with new ones, but…’