The House of Representatives has mandated its committee on banking to investigate and determine the extent of excess charges on public institutions and individuals’ accounts in various banks. Also, the committee would liaise with financial consultants to investigate the charges on the House’s accounts held in various banks, to determine the extent of the alleged excess and illegal charges, if any, in the last eight years. This followed the adoption of a motion moved by Yusuf Adamu Gagdi (APC, Plateau) at plenary on Wednesday. The House also resolved that the committee on Banking should within four weeks report back to the lawmakers with recommendations for possible further legislative action. Leading the debate, Gagdi said bank customers are disturbed by excess and illegal debits on their accounts in the name of bank charges. He said the bank charges, which target ATM charges, account maintenance fees, card maintenance charges, SMS notification charges, token maintenance fees to stamp duty fees among others, have been a source of worry to customers across the country. “Although the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has intervened on many occasions, many of these illegal charges continue unabated for a number of reasons which include but not limited to size of the amount, logistics and cost of following the matter through to conclusion since the banks are aware that customers are not likely to abandon their jobs and businesses to pursue such cases,” he said. Gagdi also explained that the banking industry was supposed to be a catalyst for economic growth and wealth creation but that lack of transparency in the industry has made investment by local and foreign investors very unattractive. “While we may choose to colour or dress the language used to qualify the action of these banks by merely referring to it as excess charges, the reality remains that it is an outright stealing of customers’ deposits by banks,” he said. He said the House of Representatives, being a public institution and one of the arms of government, accountable for the use of tax payers’ money, prudence demanded the House to commence investigation into the matter. CPC orders FCMB to refund N1.5bn illegal charges to Bauchi govt We don’t charge account maintenance fees - JAIZ FSTC Orozo: Parents complain about illegal school fees