Aero Maintenance Organization (AMO), the maintenance arm of Nigeria’s oldest airline, Aero Contractors, has sealed a multimillion naira partnership with an Indian software provider, Ramco, to automate its MRO processes. This is just as the airline has invested over N200m in the last five years in its Maintenance Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facility. The MRO was revived in 2017 to carry out aircraft maintenance up to C-check level with over 20 aircraft already churned out from the facility. The aircraft were those of Aero and other third party airlines in the country and other West and Central African countries. But the Aero MRO took a further step towards enhancing its efficiency by digitalizing its operations using RAMCO systems. The Chief Executive Officer of Aero Contractors, Capt. Ado Sanusi, said with the technology transfer partnership, the company had since December last year joined the RAMCO systems, saying the development will enhance safety of its operation as it would eliminate any form of human error in aircraft maintenance. He said the digitalization became imperative as the operation of the MRO continues to grow with more demands from Nigeria and other African countries. Head of Aero Contractors MRO, Engr. James Ominyi, disclosed that over 20 personnel of the facility had been trained by Ramco personnel to seamlessly operate the system. He said with the complexity of aircraft maintenance, there was the need to embrace the automation system to ensure nothing is left behind. The industry expert, however, assured that digitalization would not lead to reduction in manpower but will ensure optimum utilization of the manpower. “It will only ensure the manpower is judiciously used. If we have engaged someone to work for eight hours for instance, this automation will ensure that we are able to use the personnel for the purpose they were engaged for,” Ominyi added. General Manager- Africa, Europe and Middle East, Ramco, Menaka Sinha, said the successful implementation of the project “will automate manual work execution processes and enable organization-wide visibility. “With modules for planning, work execution, stores, procurement, MRO sales and billing process, Ramco’s integrated aviation M&E MRO solution automates and optimizes Aero Contractors’ MRO services,” she said. She disclosed that Ramco Aviation Software, a full web-centric application developed from the ground-up specifically for the aviation industry “is trusted by over 22,000 users to manage more than 4,000 aircraft globally.” Sinha said the solution would help Aero optimize employee utilization and improve efficiency and accuracy in billing processes. Multiple destinations should be tied to developing local airlines – Capt. Sanusi Aero begins Abuja-Kano, Warri-P/Harcourt routes, others Congo audits Aero MRO as Ghana moves to renew certification