The governorship election in Ondo State has been fixed for October 10. The Director of Media and Publicity of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Steve Otaloro, in this interview with Daily Trust on Sunday, said the party has no serious rival as long as it can unite all warring factions. He spoke on the readiness of his party for the election and the chances of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu ahead of the election, amongst other sundry issues.  How prepared is your party for the October 10 gubernatorial election in Ondo? We are very prepared. The election will take place in October this year and we’ve envisaged this. The only thing is that it is coming earlier. Nevertheless, we have made enough preparations that even if it is tomorrow, we will be ready to face it. The issue is that the administration of APC has really turned around a lot of things; we have been able to turn the fortunes of the state around. We have built a lot of infrastructure; we have brought a lot of dividends of democracy that people are resolute to be with us. This government has been able to justify that it deserves a second term. At the right time, we believe Ondo State people will be able to trust us by giving us their votes again. In the last presidential election, the PDP’s candidate Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, won the state…… Cuts-in….Yeah, well if you look at that election and the margin, you will see that it is insignificant going by the nature of what was going on in our party at that time; some people were given specific instructions in which they did not carry out. We learned that lesson and that was why we came back two weeks after to redeem our position. In the House of Assembly’s election that followed, we won with 23 to 26. What gave PDP that opportunity was as a result of internal wrangling within our party. There were those who were not happy with the way the national body of the party handled the emergence of candidates for the election. Suddenly, we saw that some people have been nominated into the House of Representatives, Senate even when there was no primary election. All members especially those awaiting this contest felt they were cheated. So there was a serious reconciliation move by the party led by Mr. Governor to ensure they remain with the party. Most of them left and that polarized the party and the centre could no longer hold. After the reconciliation move, some came back and that was why we won the House of Assembly. The election was well conducted. It is just that what we are going to take home is that when things are not done the proper way, there will always be problems. The senate and House of Representatives primary did not hold then. Everybody has learned a lesson and we are better prepared now. What are you doing to reconcile the warring factions in your party? Immediately the governor won that election, he summoned all that went to AD and put machinery in place because he saw there was a need to bring back the likes of Chief Olusola Oke (SAN) and his teeming supporters.That reconciliation has always been in motion; it is a continuous one. The only problem we are still facing is an internal problem where some decided to constitute themselves into a caucus fighting the party (that is the Unity Forum). If you can recollect, not too long ago, the governor decided to have an interface with leaders of this Unity Forum, which I believe the discussions would be fruitful and a two-man committee has been set up and I believe that at the end of the day, the problems would be resolved. I believe at the end of the day, whoever is having one grievance or the other against the party would put them aside. The Unity Forum is led by Alhaji Alli Olanusi. You see, whatever grievances you have with the party could be ironed out. We will continue to talk to them and appeal to them so that they could see the need to work with the present APC led by Engr Ade Adetimehin. He was duly elected and there is a subsisting court case to that effect. We will continue to appeal to the Unity Forum and even some other smaller groups, that we have a lot to lose in this coming gubernatorial election if they are not in the same boat with us. Do you see PDP as a strong opposition party that is likely to unseat the incumbent governor should he gets the ticket? No. With due respect to the Peoples Democratic Party, everyday, their memberships are being depleted. Most of their leaders are coming to our party. Who is the arrow head of the party? Who are the political gladiators in PDP? None. The party to beat in this is coming election is the APC. The fact that we have this is through the numerous efforts of Mr. governor’s laudable projects across the state. Let’s talk about the governor; do you see his earlier suspension and the lifting, by the APC national body as any factor in the election? I mentioned all these projects put in place by the APC government in Ondo State and the arrow head of these projects is Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. It is through his vision that these gigantic projects were put in place. You cannot change a winning team. If it is football, you continue with that team. We will still subject him to primary election. He is to contest with others that are waiting. It would not be a straight-jacket thing. We will be fair and give others the chance to contest. But we as a political party, believe all aspirants have the right to contest. Subjecting him to a primary is to test his popularity among others. As a political party, we will be fair to all. It would give us better chance if Arakunrin and his team are back onboard. In all our political rallies, we can showcase his face on our projects. It will give our party a better chance. The most important thing is that the people will be better. If they decide to return him, better and if they decide the other way round, so be it. He has done enough to return that party to government; that is where we stand. What is your comment on his suspension? I deliberately avoided it because he (Mr governor) is in the best position to answer that question. The fact that the suspension has been lifted came as a surprise to most of us because when the purported rumored suspension was on…. we believe when the likes of Governor Amosun and the Imo State governor were suspended, they were all sitting governors. It was announced and well reported. But that of Arakunrin came as a rumour. The most important thing now is that it has been lifted and we are happy about that. We believe as a political party, we should not dwell on issues that will divide us but concentrate on issues that will unite us. As a person, or an aspirant although he has not declared his intention, he is becoming more popular even nationwide. Going by his performance and the fact that he spearheaded the Amotekun initiative, that is giving the entire Yoruba a unity of purpose. He is becoming more popular and politically, he is becoming stronger. It is putting him in a vintage position to clinch the ticket. He should be the candidate to beat when the party decides who would be our flagbearer. The APC administration in the last three years of Arakunrin’s administration has proven that he wanted to work for the people. We would continue to seek the support of the electorate for him. Arakunrin has demonstrated that he has worked enough to be reelected. When he first came on board, he said he would not get his salary until civil servants were paid; they thought this was mere political statements but till date, he is still proving that he is a man of his word. He is a man called “talk and do”, he does not take political statements for granted and that is why some people felt he is a rigid man. He would rather tell you what he wants to do than tell you lies. They see him as too blunt to be a successful politician but now they have realized he is a man of integrity that could be relied on. Whatever he says he would do, he will do; what he will not do; he won’t. I think a man like that is the type they could throw into political power. We are proud to have him as a leader.  2019 elections: APC group says Buhari can’t get 10% votes from Ondo Mimiko’s allies defect to APC Post Ondo election, SDP Agunloye says God''s time best