The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Akwa Ibom Zone said it arrested over 200 persons and secured 70 convictions for various corrupt practices in 2019. The Uyo Zonal Head of EFCC, Mr Dugum Garba, said on Friday in Uyo after a street sensitisation campaign against corruption that corruption was not an easy task to be engaged alone by the commission or any other anti graft agency. Garba urged citizens especially youths to cooperate with the agency by giving information necessary to track down corrupt persons, and dissuaded them from indulging in corrupt practices or aid those trying to engage in them. He stated that corruption was a social destruction that could hinder the development of the future generations. “We had about 70 convictions in Akwa Ibom State last year, we have recovered a lot of money and we are progressing. We have arrested 200 persons so far. “This is an enlightenment campaign to sensitise and create awareness to people in the street about corruption. “Corruption should not be left to anti-corrupt agencies alone, it is a difficult task which means that everyone should be incorporated in fighting corruption. “You youths are the backbone of this country, the future leaders and the pride of every society is to try and bequeath a decent society. “Look at what is happening in the North East, what is the source of their money? It comes through some unscrupulous elements who steal our money; so, do not allow your future to be stolen away from you,” he stated. Reacting to the issue of cybercrime, Garba stated, “right now, we are trying to surmount battle against the challenges of cybercrimes. We are making good effort in getting equipment to unravel these incidents. “This exercise will also help in sensitising people against cybercrime and we are trying our best to spread our tentacles across all the zones in the country to have this people arrested”. The Akwa Ibom State Coordinator of the National Youth Service Corps, Mr Julius Amusan, said that the NYSC has been in partnership with EFCC for a long time. The street walk was organised by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission in collaboration with National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). EFCC recovers N300m, convicts 60 persons in Akwa Ibom Akwa Ibom: EFCC arrests 60 persons for internet fraud Akpabio''s rejection of N1trn EFCC probe war against Nigeria, Buhari - APC