More than six months after the rejection of the National Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP) Bill, hopes are high as a new Executive Bill is being fine-tuned for presentation to the National Assembly, Daily Trust can report. It was learnt that any moment from now, the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), a parastatal of the Federal Government domiciled in the Ministry of Industries, Trade and Investment would submit the new Bill. Daily Trust reports that after four years of undergoing legislative fireworks, the eighth National Assembly passed the NAIDP Bill in 2017. But for two years, the Bill did not receive presidential assent raising fears among stakeholders while the auto industry bleeds over absence of foreign direct investments (FDIs) to not only empower the local manufacturers but to support vehicle acquisition scheme. In 2019, President Muhammadu Buhari rejected the Bill following objections raised by some stakeholders. Daily Trust learnt that the President declined assent to the Bill following a comment from the Nigeria Investment and Promotion Council (NIPC) querying the “pioneer status” granted to manufacturers. Our correspondent gathered that the Bill provides a 10-year tax holiday for manufacturers and thus contradicts the Pioneer Status Act which is a fiscal incentive offered to companies in designated pioneer industries. The tax holiday, according to the Pioneer Status Act, is for a three-year period and can be extended for another one or two years. But the Automotive Bill rejected by the President provides 10-year tax incentive which formed one of the bases for its rejection. Also there were oppositions to the Bill by some “industry cabals”. But after securing inputs from relevant stakeholders which would be included, the Bill will soon find its way back to the National Assembly. The NAIDP bill popularly known as Auto Policy, according to stakeholders, is central to the development of the automotive industry which is said to be currently under-performing. Speaking on the move to re-present the Bill, a former Acting Director-General of the NADDC, Mr. Mamudu Luqman expressed optimism that the grey areas in the rejected Bill would be addressed in the new Bill. He described the automotive Bill as an investor confidence Bill which would boost investment by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) who are already in Nigeria. He said, “The earlier one unsigned was privately sponsored. All NADDC and FMITI need to do is to rework the Bill with input from NIPC and resubmit. This shouldn’t take forever. The Nigeria Automotive Policy Act of NAC 1993 and as amended as NADDC in 2014 is in force.  The Council is the institutional framework for policy implementation. “Nigeria already has installed capacity for over 600,000 automobiles in a country that buy over N1m vehicles annually. “Only five per cent of installed capacity is utilized because of stagnating bureaucracy, unmitigated inflow of Tokunbos (fairly used vehicles) and grey imports, non-passage of investor confidence bill etc. There has been general clamour for improved administration of the sector and from what I hear the new minister of FMITI says, he will take action likely to energise planned activities and programs. “If this happens, capacity utilisation will improve significantly enough to make Nigeria prefer locally assembled new vehicles.  Don’t forget that nearly all the OEMs are here now – Nissan , Ford, Hyundai,  Kia, Toyota, Shacman,  Geely,  Peugeot,  Sino-Truck,  Peugeot, etc.” Rejection of auto policy Bill causes disquiet in automobile industry Uncertainty trails Auto Policy bill Mixed reactions trail suspension of 2013 auto policy