The Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) has said that its ongoing engagement of stakeholders to validate the revised national policy for SMEs is aimed at facilitating sustainable development of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). The Director General of the agency, Dr. Dikko Radda, who spoke in Kaduna at a forum, said the performance of the MSMEs subsector largely depended on the existence and implementation of a functional National Policy on MSMEs. According to him, the stakeholders meeting is aimed at engaging the MSMEs subsectors of the economy both public and private with view to validate the MSMEs policy document review exercise that is being conducted. He said: “The national policy on MSMEs is quite dynamic while the need to do a timely review of the policy document is further justified by certain interventions and initiatives both at national and global space. “We have gone all over the county to seek opinions of the stakeholders to review the policy and put it into a document and present it to them so that we can validate it and take it up to the federal ministry of industry, trade and investment. “We will subsequently send the documents to the federal executive council for approval for it to become a policy for the MSMEs in the country”, the DG added. He pointed out that the switch from National Economic Empowerment and Development strategy of the previous administration to the Economic Growth and Recovery Plan necessitated the validation. The industrial development expert said: “The CBN’s Anchor Borrowers Scheme, major restructuring of the Power Holding Company into generation, transmission and distribution companies, the National Collateral Registry among others also necessitated the validation. “To capture the inputs of critical stakeholders, we had to engage with the operators, researchers and enablers along a zonal arrangement of the country. “With this, SMEDAN is hopeful that the revised National Policy will be able to facilitate and sustain a vibrant MSMEs subsector that will be the major driver of national economic growth and employment”, Radda added. Kaduna State Commissioner of Business, Innovation and Technology, Idris Nyam, said that the initiative is paramount to the development of the state and the country at large.  FG to create nationwide database for MSMEs National policy on MSMEs will promote job creation -Radda SMEDAN to partner Jaiz Bank on MSMES development