The Kano State Government has said it will continue to apply new techniques to address post-harvest losses in the tomato value-chain which remains one of the leading problems in tomato production in the state. The Deputy Governor of the state who also oversees the Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, gave the assurance while addressing participants at a roundtable on post-harvest losses reduction in the tomato value-chain organised by Technoserve at the government house. According to him, post-harvest losses in tomato production had affected tomato production business in Nigeria, and added that to address the issues, the state was in partnership with relevant bodies such as Dangote Tomato Processing Company, which is presently training tomato farmers on newly adopted techniques in reducing post-harvest losses. Dr. Gawuna said, “Dangote Tomato Processing Company is partnering with our farmers in improving tomato production, and what we did was to educate the farmers on the new techniques that will ensure reduction in post-harvest losses. I can confirm that in the last two years, the price of fresh tomatoes has been fairly stable. In January 2019, a basket of tomatoes sold at N2,069, and similarly, in 2020, emerging price is N2,970 at the onset of the season and has remained fairly stable too.” Earlier in her remarks, the Deputy Country Director of Technoserve Nigeria, Ayokanmi Ayuba, explained that the discussion was organised to address the issue of post-harvest loss reduction in the tomato value-chain and to discuss the ways through which the farmers would be assisted to reduce loss and improve their production capacity. Ayuba said, “The goal of Technoserve’s YieldWise Project is to reduce post-harvest loss by 50 per cent throughout the tomato supply chain and increase average tomato income for 45,000 participating farmers by 50 per cent. The project will include farmers in the ‘tomato triangle’ region, including Kano, Jigawa, Katsina, Kaduna and Plateau states.” Dilemma of tomato farmers CBN, BoI to assist in production of high yield tomato Why 50 percent of Nigeria tomatoes suffer post-harvest loss