The Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, has declared that commercial motorcycle and tricycle riders, whose operations the Lagos State\ government has restricted in 15 local councils, will not be accommodated in the state. Gov Abiodun’s position was contrary to that of the Chairman of the Caretaker Committee on Transportation in Ogun State, Barrister Femi Adeniyi, who had on Monday reportedly assured the motorcyclists relocating to the state of adequate accommodation. The governor, in a statement issued yesterday by his Special Adviser on Public Communications, Remmy Hazzan, said commercial motorcycle operation was fraught with many challenges, including security, “which is why their operations have eit By Idowu Isamotu  A yet-to-be identified driver crashed his Toyota Sienna car with registration number, BR 249 KWL, on the Kubwa-Gwarinpa expressway in Abuja, leaving him fatally wounded. Our reporter who witnessed the crash which happened at about 10:45am on  Tuesday, saw the car which was heading to the city from Kubwa, skid from the speed lane and somersault three times before crashing on the service lane where it hit another car. Officials of Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), who were controlling traffic along the road, quickly rushed the driver to an undisclosed hospital in Gwarinpa Estate. Speaking with  our reporter, an official of FRSC, who did not want his name in print, warned drivers to always obey traffic rules while driving. According to him, many drivers are fond of making phone calls while driving which, according to him, flouts traffic rules.  her been totally banned or restricted in many parts of the country.” The governor said Ogun State did not have the capacity to cope with the “menace and security challenges” that the influx of ‘okada’ operators from Lagos and any other neighbouring state would pose. He noted that deploying motorcycles for commercial operation was not in the schedule of the National Transportation policy, adding that the Ogun State government was already looking into the issue with a view to coming out with a clear policy direction. “As the state with the largest industrial base, Ogun State will continue to welcome more investors. The present administration, in its determination to further enhance the status of the state as the most industrialised, has put in place policies that would attract more businesses home and abroad’’, he said. He appealed to residents of the state to go about their legitimate businesses as efforts had been made to prevent security breaches in the state.  Okada Ban: Riders not welcome in Ogun - Gov Abiodun Amotekun: Ogun not pulling out - Gov Abiodun Taskforce arrests 10 Gokada riders, impounds 23 bikes