The Ekiti State House of Assembly yesterday passed the Ekiti State Security Network bill popularly called Amotekun into law. The chairman, Committee on Security and Special Duties in the House, Hon. Akanle Oluwole, also submitted the report of the amended bill to the House after reading the amendments on the bill which became law. The Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun Ondo, and Ekiti states Houses of Assembly may pass the Amotekun bill before the end of next week, Daily Trust Saturday gathered yesterday. Indications to this emerged at a meeting of the state governments with the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Idris Ibrahim. At the end of a meeting held in Lagos Thursday, the IGP and representatives of each state okayed the framework of Southwest Regional Security Network. But the Inspector General of Police agreed that the initiative would not be run as a regional security operation, but a state-led effort. Also, the meeting ratified the community policing model proposed by the IGP and the initiative would be complementing Operation Amotekun and conventional police operations in all local communities. Oyo State while hinting that it would soon pass the Amotekun bill, proposed to recruit officers across the 33 local government in the state, the speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly has said. Speaking with newsmen after the plenary, the Oyo State Speaker, Rt. Hon. Adebo Ogundoyin noted that the lawmakers were excited with the bill and would do everything possible to accelerate its passage into law within some days. Osun State has not passed the bill. The Chief Press Secretary to the Speaker of the House, Mr Kunle Alabi, said the bill had been formally received but hearing had not commenced. The Ogun State House of Assembly has promised speedy passage of the bill. The Speaker, Olakunle Oluomo, disclosed shortly after he read to the legislators, a letter sent to the House by Governor Dapo Abiodun, intimating the assembly of the Amotekun bill. The Lagos State Assembly is also yet to receive the Amotekun bill for scrutiny and necessary action. Tunde Buraimoh, the spokesman of the Lagos State Assembly, told Daily Trust Saturday that the Ministry of Justice was working on the bill after which it would be ratified by the State Executive Council and be transmitted to the House of Assembly for further legislative scrutiny and other necessary actions. Amotekun: Ekiti Attorney General submits draft bill to Fayemi No bill yet on Amotekun in S/West Houses of assembly S/west govs to sign Amotekun bill Friday