United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc has rewarded 100 bumper account customers with N100, 000 each at a raffle draw in Lagos The ‘UBA Bumper Account’ is a hybrid account, targeted at transforming the lives of its customers, offers account holders an opportunity to win cash prizes of up to N2 million. Speaking during the launch and monthly draw event in Lagos , the Group Head, Retail Banking, Jude Anele said, the Account was created with the customer in mind. He said: “We have in recent times deepened our focus on the most important aspect of our business – the customers we serve. Hence, our huge investment in technology to make banking easier and seamless, even as we introduce new offerings such as this Bumper Account, that will deliver improved value to stakeholders. The banker explained that new and existing customers of the bank needed to ensure they have a minimum deposit of N5,000 in their UBA Bumper Account to qualify for draws. In the first draw which was held live during the official launch in Lagos, a total of 100 customers emerged winners as Wande Coal entertained guests with his famous hit songs to the delight of all. “From here on, lucky customers will win from N10,000 to N2 million each in the monthly, quarterly and targeted draws. “No fewer than 50 account holders will get a whopping N2 million each across all participating regions. This account is open to both existing and new customers of the bank who save a minimum of N5,000”, Anele assured. He added that a monthly shopping allowance of N100,000 for a year is also up for grabs. Amos Wisdom, one of the winners, could not hide his joy when his name was announced as one of the winners. “I am still very amazed. Before I came here, I had the conviction that I would win. All my life, I have never won anything like this, and I am very happy that I won this time. Thank you so much UBA,” he enthused. UBA launches Leo Apple business chat FCMB excites more customers with cash, gifts at ‘’Millionaire Promo Season 6’’ 3rd draws The chaos of bank account update