A 30-year-old man, Oyekola Dare, has been arraigned before an Ogba, Lagos, chief magistrate court allegedly for sexually assaulting a 20-year-old physically challenged woman. The police, who said that the incident took place last Thursday at Ogo-Oluwa Close, Alakuko, Lagos, disclosed that both Dare and the woman’s parents were residing in the same compound when he committed the offence. The police alleged that Dare took advantage of the condition of the complainant, who was said to be afflicted with the Down syndrome. The police prosecutor, Michael Unah, said that the parents of the woman became suspicious of the defendant when he suddenly became very close to their daughter. Unah said, “following the suspicion, the woman’s parents decided to keep a close watch on the accused person. The watch paid off last Thursday when the accused person was caught in the act. The matter was subsequently reported to the police, prompting Dare’s arrest. “In the course of interrogation, he told the police and the lady’s parents that he was planning to marry her.” The police said neighbours of the woman’s parents had informed them that Dare was always sneaking into her room whenever they (parents) had gone to work. The defendant’s plea was not taken after the prosecutor, Mr Michael Unah, asked the court to refer the matter to the Department of Public Prosecution (DPP), since it was a case of defilement, which Unah said was a felony and attracted serious punishment. However, the defendant, through his female counsel, objected to his remand in prison custody. The counsel argued before the court that her client and the woman were lovers, and that the defendant was prepared to marry her. However, the magistrate, Mr A. A. Fashola, ordered that the defendant be remanded in prison custody and directed the prosecutor to send a duplicate copy of the file to the DPP for legal advice. The matter was adjourned till March 25, 2020, for the report of the DPP to be available.  Man charged with alleged $75,000 property fraud Woman docked for throwing son into toilet Man, 56, caught stealing pot of soup