The Federal Government at the weekend hinted that its plans to have 10-Year Development Plan to guide national development after the completion of the Vision 2020 and the Economic Growth and Recovery Plan (ERGP) by the end of this year are receiving now receiving stakeholders’ inputs. The Minister for Budget and National Planning, Clem Ikanade Agba disclosed this when he visited the Centre for Management Development (CMD), Shangisha, Lagos at the weekend. Agba said the Ministry had set up a Technical committee along with a central working group to begin the ground work. He explained: “We have had 11 quarters of growth with the ERGP but the plan terminates in December and there is the need for a succession plan.  We are aggregating views. Some believe it should be for 30 years. Others think 20 or 10 years. I think a long term plan with a two medium term of 5 years will be fine. “At the steering committee level, we want it to be truly national. We want to capture most of the diversity of the country. We don’t want it to be a federal government plan, we want a Federation plan that takes care of the federal, sub national, private sector, women, religious and other considerations”, the minister added. Agba also hinted that the ministry was already undertaking reviews of the ERGP and previous development plans to evaluate things that have worked, understand why some failed with a view to consolidating and passing them to the technical working group. On the employees’ request for improved budget and confirmation of the Ag Director General, Bitrus Chinoko, the minister expressed satisfaction with the performance of the DG. He charged the management of the Centre to consider means of generating revenue internally to justify the need for its improved budgetary allocations. The minister promised to work with the International Corporation Centre, which facilitate trainings in Japan, China and Korea to consider nominations from the CMD.  How to insulate ERGP from political storm, achieve 10% growth – Experts Vision 2040 births as ERGP ends 6 months later, no implementation road map for economic recovery plan