An expert in personal development and enterprise growth, Professor Roger Delves, and other experts have concluded arrangements to organise the TEXEM, UK’s “Leading With Personal Impact During Slow Growth” training for Chief Executive Officers in Nigeria. During the programme scheduled to hold from 4th-5th March 2020, at the Radisson Blu Anchorage Hotel, Lagos, participating CEOs are expected to learn about how to identify how emotional intelligence can strengthen their organisational leadership; understand how a growth mind-set helps to obtain the best performance from team members; and explore the critical role of relationships within and between teams, within stakeholder environments and across an organization. Other knowledge to gain by the CEOs from the programme include how to encourage and sustain a culture of innovation in their organizations; identify and address the hindrances to high performance within teams and the role of the leader in addressing them; engage stakeholders for success; develop team and organisational culture and behaviour for success; and lead, communicate and deliver change in a volatile socio-economic context. A statement issued by the programme organizers indicated that over 4000 CEOs had benefitted from it in the past. They noted that “most companies are passing through dire socio-economic turmoil characterised by poor financial performance, low morale and limited creativity, to survive and succeed in the long run, they require exceptional leadership.” Specifically writing about the importance of the TEXEM training in the country, the organizers pointed out “the operating context of Nigeria is currently characterised by volatility and dynamism but offers a prospect for profitable growth for strategic leaders. However, they further noted that “not every executive is visionary and possess people skills, yet there is a need for both hard and soft skills to succeed. Most leaders have “hard skills”. That is to say, the technical knowledge required for their positions. Soft skills, on the other hand, are a rarity. The team maintained that by “learning self-awareness and improving the chances of success while managing change, you and your team can become a source of competitive advantage, survival and profitable growth for your organisation.” One of the leading facilitators, who is also the Associate Dean and Professor of Practice at Ashridge Executive Education, Hult International Business School, Professor Roger Delves, is reputed for would share practical insights on Impactful Leadership and strategies for Optimum Performance in an era of slow growth. His special interests are helping others to understand the roles of authenticity and emotional intelligence in leadership and team engagement. Thus, applying TEXEM’s tested, proven methodology and track record of training over four thousand executives, Professor Delves will share practical insights on Impactful Leadership and strategies for Optimum Performance in an era of slow growth. According to the organizers, the programme is meant for senior executives and executive team members in public, private and third sector with significant management responsibilities. They maintained that participation by two or more members of the senior management team will nurture collaboration and accelerate the development programme’s impact and advised potential participants to make enquiries or seek more information about the programme through their email  exec@texem.co.uk Leading with Personal Impact during Slow Growth in Lagos Professor Graham Wilson speaks on TEXEM executive training Designing a Flexible Organization and Engaging Innovative Ideas for a Competitive Edge