The Department For International Development (DFID), Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) have agreed to collaborate to develop the Fintech space in the country. The partnership was sealed when officials of both international agencies visited the Acting Director General, Ms. Mary Uduk, at the commission’s headquarters in Abuja. Speaking during the visit, the Acting Director General of SEC, said the SEC was enthusiastic about the collaboration as it would encourage responsible use of new technologies and digital finance in the capital market, influence increased international participation and cooperation, and also provide investors with more choices in the Nigerian Capital Market. Uduk said the commission was planning to adopt regulatory and supervisory practices for orderly development and stability of Fintech, while also paying attention to sustaining confidence and safeguarding the integrity of the market. She said:  “In this way, our policies will facilitate the safe entry of new products, activities and intermediaries. In addition, we will ensure that regulation does not stand in the way of innovation” she noted. According to her, while it is clear that FinTech has already made huge inroads into many aspects of the financial industry, what is perhaps even clearer is that the surface has barely been scratched in relation to what FinTech can do for the financial system and the nation’s economy in the future. The investment expert clarified further: “The awareness of customers that their data might be prone to cyber-attacks could make them lose trust in digital channels until strong consumer protection frameworks are in place. These frameworks for digital financial services will be critical in building confidence for consumers. “We have come up with ways to monitor the risks that may come up. It’s like a sandbox, but not an enclave. We are building capacity to train young people that would be able to drive the process. We hope that this year will be a turning point. We are trying to gather as much information as we can to be able to contextualise and synthesise regulation in Nigeria. “Young people are beginning to get interested in investment and they are doing this via Fintech and that is why we are doing all that we can to develop rules around it so that the risk will be mitigated and it will further develop the market”, Uduk added. In his remarks, Senior Adviser, UK DFID, Mr Richard Sandall, said DFID and FCA had a partnership to support FCA to step into new jurisdictions to deliver DFID objectives in certain areas. He said: “We are in Nigeria to look at the FinTech environment, regulatory environment and see if there are ways the Fintech environment can be built.  SEC moves to regulate crowd-funding, cry to assets SEC partners Korea for development of derivatives market in Nigeria SEC to align master plan with current economic realities