Contractors are scrambling to be part of the supply of the 400 utility vehicles of the members of the House of Representatives, Daily Trust reports. Condemnation has been trailing the decision of the parliamentarians to spend N5.4bn on the purchase of their official/utility vehicles. The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) and 192 concerned Nigerians have filed a lawsuit asking the Federal High Court in Abuja to “restrain and stop Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker of the House of Representatives and all members of the House from spending an estimated N5.04 billion to buy 400 exotic cars for principal officers and members.” Our correspondents report that not minding the legal action, contractors are struggling to be part of the supply of the vehicles. Contrary to previous reports, impeccable sources told our correspondents that the final decision has not been taken as to the model of the vehicles to be purchased. Our reporters sighted two Toyota Camry 2019 models at the speaker’s parking lot, House of Representative’s wing, National Assembly complex on Monday. One white V6 and a black four-cylinder 2019 Toyota Camry Model. At Elizade Nigeria Limited’s car stand, a Camry 2019 (V6) goes for N35, 075,000 while a Camry 2019 (4 cylinders) is sold for N26,575,000. A member who spoke on condition of anonymity said a final decision has not been taken on the brand or model of the cars. “It is not something that is hidden. We are entitled to it. The model is not also an issue because many things have to be considered. You cannot buy a 2000 model for a lawmaker in 2019 or 2020. It will be out of place if you do that,” he said. Another member who also spoke on the matter said they have been using their personal cars for official purposes. “Look at our composition in both the Senate and the House, 360 House members and 109 senators. These people were elected to serve Nigerians and there are things they need to do their jobs well and that include the vehicles we are talking about. In the suit number FHC/ABJ/CS/205/2020, SERAP and the concerned Nigerians said: “It is illegal and unconstitutional for members of the House of Representatives to choose to buy expensive and exotic cars while encouraging Nigerians to tighten their belts and to patronise Nigerian brands. It is also illegal for members to reject cheaper and equally reliable options”  Abuja-Kano road collapses amid project delay Saraki’s N298m bulletproof car rots away at Customs yard After collecting car loans: Senators, Reps to get 496 cars