The British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Miss Catriona Laing, led a powerful delegation of United Kingdom (UK) officials on a strategic partnership visit to Dantata Foods and Allied Products Limited. Miss Catriona was in Kano to strengthen UK’s relationship with government and private investors to promote business and economic ties between the two countries through the organised private sector. She said the UK government was more interested in promoting agribusiness in Nigeria to ensure sustainable land usage as the country was endowed with excellent land resources that could benefit many countries across the globe through food production, processing and packaging. She added that, “We will provide the necessary enabling environment and facilitate investment opportunities in agribusiness to promote bio-economy, address challenges of climate change and food security.” She, therefore, pleaded for more attention by the industrialist on the UK’s market for processed Nigerian foods. In a statement, the General Manager, Corporate Services, Dantata Foods and Allied Products Limited, Sanusi Ahmad Bature, said the visit was a follow up to the just concluded UK-Africa Business and Investment Summit held January, 2020, in London. Addressing the visiting team, Alh. Tajuddeen Aminu Dantata, Chairman of Dantata conglomerate, which includes Dantata Foods and Allied Products Limited, Thumos Dantata Agriculture Limited and D’ Afric Global Resources Limited, said curtailing the menace of food insecurity, abject poverty and effects of climate change through agriculture for economic growth was the driving force for their concerted effort to invest in the food value chain. Dantata said, “Our renewed commitment is to provide jobs and food sufficiency in Nigeria and beyond. We will soon be servicing the Middle East and European markets in addition to other African countries that were already engaged.” He reiterated commitment to creating more investment in the food and agro-allied sub-sector of the economy to support the global drive for food sufficiency. He said Nigeria had all the potentials to feed a significant per cent of the world population if the available land resources were carefully and strategically utilised. The Dantata Company, British Department for International Development (DFID) and the British High Commission agreed to work together on promoting agribusiness in Nigeria as the only catalyst to attaining food security, addressing challenges of climate change and reaching a sustainable economic growth. AgNet to facilitate $3.4bn new agribusiness investments by 2023 US to invest in Nigeria’s agribusiness sector Top challenges affecting small agribusinesses growth in Nigeria