Former Commissioner Public Complaints Commission, CP Abubakar Tsav (rtd), has urged Nigerians not to drag Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, into the middle of an alleged feud between National Security Adviser (NSA) Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd) and the Chief of Staff (CoS) to the President, Alhaji Abba Kyari. Tsav (rtd), gave the warning in an open letter to an online platform. After initially claiming that Monguno accused Abba Kyari of undue interference on matters bordering on national security, the online portal went further to allege that the COAS took sides with the latter. Tsav said this is only a well-crafted mischief with highly inciting contents, provocative to the sensibilities of Nigerians, and bears elements of compromising national security. According to the ex-CP, “issues of redeployment and postings of Army personnel are routine administrative procedures exclusively at the discretion of the Army leadership guided by the service needs of personnel in specific areas”. Tsav added that the Army Chief does not take directives from the office of NSA but the President. “For the sake of records, the Army Chief does not take directives from the office of NSA, as the report carelessly insinuated. The COAS strictly takes directives from the President and Commander -in-Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces who wields the final authority on all national security Heads. “I have absolute trust in Lt. Gen TY Buratai as a professional soldier, loyal and patriotic leader to his country. And by his antecedents known to me over the years, the Gen. Buratai I know; and Nigerians can vouch for his integrity and sterling leadership qualities, he is very busy in the trenches, coordinating troops in the war against insurgency, angling and itching for results, ” he said. Tsav noted that Buratai is neither involved in this artificial war of attrition nor has any knowledge of it, adding that he will not compromise his official responsibilities for any personal interest and should not be distracted. FG keeps mum over Service-Chiefs must-go call Crack in Buhari’s team as NSA accuses Kyari of sabotage Day after lawmakers called for their sack, Buhari meets security chiefs