The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has concluded plans to set up an automated ship registration process through online and electronic procedure. The initiative is aimed at creating a world-class ship registry that will enhance the Federal Government’s ease of doing business agenda in the nation’s maritime sector. The Director General (DG) of NIMASA, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, who disclosed this in Lagos at an interactive session with ship owners, said the agency had acquired software licence for the automation of Nigeria’s ship registry. According to him, the automation was the only way to boost the worth of the registry and quicken business processes. He further said: “Our principal aim is to achieve online electronic registration, accept electronic copies of documents and issue electronic certificates. Our goal as a maritime safety administration is to create a world class ship registry which will be attractive to ship owners with the aim of maintaining the influence of Nigeria in evolving international commercial and regulatory environment for shipping.” Dakuku disclosed that in 2018 and 2019, the Nigerian registry attracted two high index capacity vessels: Egina FPSO and MT Ultimate, and expressed optimism that a lot more could be done to assist Nigerians in acquiring vessels, hence its intensified effort to ensure the disbursement of the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF). On the collaboration between NIMASA and the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) to drive capacity in the maritime industry, the DG listed auditing the register of Nigerian vessels, redesigning and producing new ship registry certificates and automation of the ship registry, ship registry filing facility, review of ship registration guidelines and ISO 9001: 2015 certification as some of the initiatives undertaken by the management to improve the agency’s efficiency and effectiveness. On the need for stakeholders’ support for the computerisation initiative, Dakuku said: “Our esteemed stakeholders, while keeping our eyes firmly fixed on the objective of building a world-class ship registry, we hope to rely on your guidance, experience, industry knowhow and cooperation to endow the desperately needed credence and international respect for the Nigerian flag.” In his presentation on background and development of ship registration, a governing council member of the NCDMB, Mr. Mina Oforiokuma, noted that technically, Nigeria’s registry was the largest in Africa. Oforiokuma said this was based on the fact that Liberia operated an open registry, domiciled in the United States of America (USA), and that more so, most of the vessels registered in Nigeria traded in Africa. The Chairman of the Ship Registry Committee, Engr. Emmanuel Ilori, urged NIMASA to set clear timelines for the administrative process of ship registration and put in place precise change in flag instructions. Nigeria is targeting a world class ship registry — Dakuku ‘Crimes in Gulf of Guinea affecting Nigeria’s economies’ Navy holds ship with Naval men, crew, others for 45 days