Adamawa State Governor Ahmadu Fintiri says his government has recruited  about 100 Civilian Joint Task Force members to further complement the efforts of the military  in the fight against the Boko Haram insurgency. He said the size of the military could not cover the entire country, hence the need for supports from different vigilante groups. Fintiri, who led a delegation to the North East Development Commission (NEDC) headquarters in Abuja yesterday, said: “Even the military themselves have increased the number of their men that are presently in Garkida. Before I came here, I had donated about 10 trucks to the military for them to further enhance their activities in Garkida town. We’re doing a lot more, digging around the town so that movement will be very difficult for the Boko Haram boys.” The governor appealed to the Federal Government to rebuild military facilities destroyed by the terrorists in the last week attack on Garkida town in the state. “We’re particular about the police station, the army and the military facilities, the hospital facilities and support for individuals affected. As a result of the Boko Haram activities in the town that day, we need a trauma centre for the people of Garkida because these are people who have been living peacefully and then suddenly, they had to go through such devastation.  With that, they should go through some trauma management,” he said. NEDC Managing Director Mohammed Goni Alkali, said the commission would soon mobilize to Garkida for to rebuild destroyed properties and rehabilitate the residents. NEDC Chairman Major-General (rtd.) Paul Tarfa said: “I come from Garkida; we’ve a long history of peace and good background education. The damage is massive and what affects Garkida, Adamawa State, affects all Nigeria. We’re doing everything possible to restore peace. Our people are going there to take a look at the damage and when they come back, we’ll know where we’re to intervene.”  Garkida attack: Governor Fintiri recruits 100 civilian JTF Gunmen kill 30 civilians, 4 soldiers in Adamawa Buhari to Nigerians: Expect aggressive campaign to crush Boko Haram