Forte Oil, has officially unveiled a completely new brand, name, logo, and tagline, following approval by the company’s shareholders at anextraordinary general meeting, held in Lagos. The company’s Chief Executive Officer, Olumide Adeosun, explained that the most important quality “we bring to the market right now is our history and legacy of more than five decades in the energy downstream sector.” Adeosun explained that the new name, Ardova, was from acombination of the Dutch/Arabic word: Aarde, meaning earth and the word ‘value’mirroring the company’s ambitions to build a brand that has at the heart of itscorporate strategy, sustainability leadership. “Our long and proud legacy gives us a vantage positionfrom where we can see things differently about how energy is consumed today. Itis from this platform we are building a new brand geared to lead to a future where energy is consumed differently, such that we are poised to deliver energyfor a brave new world. “The company weare building for the future is a people-first oriented and star service one. Onewith sound management in place to deliver a holistic brand vision, with deepinvestments in technology and sustainable expansion of our retail network. “The company had previously informed its stakeholdersthat 25% of its revenue over the next three years will come from low carbon andrenewable sources. We are confident in our brand’s ability to deliver” he said. According to him, plans are being finalized for a corresponding optimization of the company’s retail network experience and agradual roll-out of the new brand livery across all former Forte Oil stations in the country. The new logo features a hexagram styled icon as the leading visual concept and takes on the moniker (AP) which creatively connects thecompany to its rich history and heritage, a design approach the company took tohelp create a nexus between history and modernity. The change to Ardova came barely eight months after theformer Chairman of the oil company, Femi Otedola completed the sale of theentity. The divestment process was completed in June 2019. The company has existed in Nigeria for 56 years, starting as British Petroleum (BP), trading almost exclusively in fuels andlubricants. Otedola exits Forte Oil, shifts attention to Geregu Power Forte Oil appoints Adeosun as CEO Forte oil introduces new lubricant