The Special Assistant on local media to Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom state, Prince Emmanuel Sam, has given 600 sets of uniform to pupils of Saint John’s Catholic Primary school, Eniong Offot, Uyo. Sam who presented the sets of uniform to the headmistress and teachers of the school on Wednesday, said if the pupils are properly dressed in clean uniforms, it would boost their confidence and excitement to learning. He said old and torn school uniforms could affect the morale of pupils and lower their self-esteem and academic performance. The governor’s aide said he donated the school uniforms to show appreciation to his boss the governor for continuing the free and compulsory education policy of the state. “I was a pupil of this school and I can recall that I had one set of uniform throughout my stay here. At some point the buttocks of the uniform was torn and my parents patched it, so I had a uniform that had patches of different colours.” “A torn uniform can have negative psychological impact on the child. It can affect his self expression in the midst of other pupils, hence, his academic performance. That’s why I have come to give back to my school. I am doing this in appreciation of my boss, the governor, His Excellency, Mr. Udom Emmanuel who has kept the promise of continuing the free and compulsory education policy.” He thanked the governor for approving the fencing and construction of a modern toilet facility in the school, saying that with the perimeter fence the case of flooding, vandalisation and theft of properties of the school would be curbed. Sam lauded the headmistress and teachers of the school for maintaining optimum discipline and sanitation despite the large population of pupils. The governor’s aide advised the pupils particularly those in primary six preparing for common entrance examination to be good ambassadors of the school as they leave for secondary school. A pupil of the school, Hosanna Etuk Dan, thanked Prince Emmanuel Sam for the gesture. Headmistress of the school, Mrs. Rose Nkereuwem, said she was happy to witness positive presence of government in the school. Jigawa nomadic education agency to distribute free school uniforms to 8,000 pupils Borno’s ‘mega schools’, years after With rickety boats, tattered life-jackets, Lagos pupils seek low-cost education in riverine communities