Nigeria’s increasingly worrisome poverty level can be brought under control and even substantially reduced if government at all levels adopts a new strategic approach in funding and implementing educational programmes and projects, experts have said. The experts, Dr. Adedeji Adeniran and Amarachi Nkata, both economists at the Centre for the Study of African Economies (CSEA), stated this in their recently published research paper titled: “Poverty Alleviation via Education in Nigeria: Lessons from China”, sourced by Daily Trust. According to them, the 2018 World Poverty clock by the World Bank which estimated that approximately 50 per cent of the estimated 193 million population live in poverty, indicating that Nigeria has the highest number of people living in extreme poverty, and therefore, require that government’s approach to poverty alleviation should be reviewed to achieve desired impact. The experts wrote largely from the lessons that could be drawn from emerging economies like China, a country which was able to between 1990 and 2015, effectively lift 745 million of its people out of poverty and agreed that Nigeria could use the tool of education to economically empower millions of her people now trapped in poverty. While using a new book on poverty alleviation in China to illustrate their views, the economists identified four key approaches that can be adopted by the Nigerian governments to transform the nation’s education system into a strong pedestal in the poverty alleviation drive. Specifically, the experts listed prioritising vocational education; synergy between the finance ministry and the education ministry since education policy is considered as a subset of the grander economic policy; giving special consideration to disadvantaged communities and vulnerable groups in education; and encouraging robust community participation in education management as key to achieving education-driven economic development in the country. They stated that: “Although Nigeria has set up vocational training programmes in the formal 6-3-3-4 education system, as well as state governments and civil societies facilitated programmes, their impact are limited. This is because the programmes are not widespread, lack permeability and are not standardised in delivery. “Similarly, the lack of an overarching initiative focused on skill acquisition in the Nigerian education system limits its impact on poverty alleviation and also excludes some demographic groups in the development process.” On the imperative of seeing education policy as an integral part of the grander economic policy, the authors pointed out that China’s approach to economic planning through mainstreaming poverty alleviation programmes into the education policy could help Nigeria to simultaneously tackle the educational and economic challenges. While agreeing that the federal and state governments’ recent school feeding programme was an example of balance policy mix to improve inclusion, the CSEA analysts advised that going forward, it was crucial to expand the intervention to region-specific incentives to improve educational performance in the country. On community participation and its implications for poverty reduction, the experts noted that the Chinese experience offered a template which had worked to lift more than three times the estimated Nigerian population out of poverty, and added that, fortunately, it only required looking inward and building broad base local partnership. With NAPEP, poverty still spreading NAPEP, poverty and  matters arising Senate tasks FG on 120m Nigerians living below poverty