Most pensioners in most countries largely live in hardship: riddled with old age, sickness, loneliness, lack of money and, sadly, lack of care by family or society. Despite this reality, cultural practices, policies and legal measures have been put in place in many countries to make life easier for pensioners, especially free or heavily subsidised healthcare services, and in some countries, these services are provided to retirees and pensioners in their own homes, and some also given free food. However, majority of pensioners in Nigeria have no such privileges: they are abandoned by the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). In fact, it is doubtful if NHIS, which reportedly serves less than three per cent of the population, has a reliable data of subscribers. The absence of such data is a clear indication that the retired are not being taken care of. Outside the hugely important subsidised or free healthcare services, pensioners who are of certain age do not pay fares for travelling on trains or municipal buses. And some private airlines offer cheap tickets to certain categories of pensioners. While free meals are given to more than nine million children in primary schools in Nigeria, and millions more in other countries, some pensioners are given free food items in some countries to cook in their homes. Others are served prepared meals by their governments. Some of them get free warm clothing or subsidised heating fuel. It is common to see retirees or pensioners hawking or begging for money on the streets of Nigerian cities. They do so because of the very little pension they get, or because they have no pension at all. Elsewhere around the world, monthly pension is more than the last salary of a retiree. And in many countries, it is 100 per cent of the last salary for all pensioners. In Nigeria, good pension is only for the top echelon of the public sector: professors, permanent secretaries, governors, judges, generals, including retired senior police officers. Research for this article did not yield much information regarding the pension adequacy level of retired top operatives in the private sector. However, many of them get “golden handshake”, a euphemism for a generous severance pay package. In Nigeria, Conditional Cash Transfer to a chunk of the poorest segment of the population will make life easier for pensioners. Loneliness is a killer at its worst and a trigger of stress, frustration, hallucination or mental illness. Therefore, human touch, either through the family, long-term or even new friends and acquaintances, is necessary. Sociologists in the realist and functionalist schools of thought agree that as a social animal the human being survives best as a communalist. The extended family system therefore, gives the pensioner numerous benefits of social engagement with caring relatives. Therefore, making life easier for pensioners should be a societal cum governmental duty. NIPSS, NHIS, NASS and pensioners A new attitude for pensioners? That N51.22 billon for basic health and pensioners