A 50-year-old man, John Onyema, has been arrested for allegedly beating his wife to death. Although Onyema insisted his wife died of heart attack, the police alleged that the deceased, Esther Onyema, who was the proprietor of Brilliant Kids Nursery and Primary School, died after she was brutalized by her husband. The police said that the medical report on the death showed that Esther died as a result of the injuries she sustained from series of beating she suffered in the hands of her husband. It was gathered that in his confessional statement, the suspect said, “we have been having problems for sometime now. She moved out of the house simply because I had no money. She went to stay with one Pastor Friday. I suspected that she was having an affair with the pastor. “Before the unfortunate incident occurred, I came back from work sometime in January this year only to find out from my children that their mother had left the house. “For three days I was looking for her. But on the fourth day I discovered that she had moved in to stay with the pastor. When I went there I saw tying only a wrapper, while the pastor was wearing only boxers. “When I tried to confront her, the pastor gave me the beating of my life. He said I should leave his house. Before I knew what was happening, he wrestled me to the ground. “All entries I made to ensure that she returns to the house were rebuffed. On January 16, 2020, I went to her school located at Ladi-Lak, in the Bariga area of Lagos, and found her standing by the gate. I tried to talk to her but she refused. We had a shouting match before I left. That was the last time I saw her. Three days later, I got a call that my wife was at the hospital. I rushed to the hospital only to find out that she was dead.” But the police alleged that Onyema accused Esther of adultery and starving him of sex. The suspect, according to the police, would be charged to court tomorrow.  Maryam Sanda: 53 spouses allegedly killed by partners in two years How love affair earned housewife, pastor lover death sentence How two sisters severed co-tenant’s genitals  with kitchen knife