The Acting Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, has described the return to January-December budget cycle in Nigeria’s public finance as desirable for pushing the economy on the path of sustainable growth. Yemi-Esan made this remark at the opening ceremony of the 2020 procurement retreat organized by the Bureau of Public Procurement for federal permanent secretaries, accountant general of the federation and the auditor general of the federation. She harped on the need for prudent financial management in all ministries and parastatals to facilitate the achievement of the aspiration of the government’s next-level agenda. The number one civil servant pointed out that the 12-month fiscal calendar would also enable the private sector and other development partners to easily align their programmes with the country’s new budget cycle which in turn would foster full participation of all stakeholders in the provision of critical amenities and infrastructure for Nigerians. Yemi-Esan charged the permanent secretaries and heads of extra-ministerial offices to be proactive, and to employ all necessary mechanisms towards a seamless and effective implementation of the budgets of their respective ministries. This is even as she urged them to be fully involved in the procurement processes of the ministries under their control, and to ensure that the chief executives of agencies under their purview follow due processes, and strictly adhere to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act before embarking on implementation of any project. “Permanent Secretary of a ministry or head of an extra-ministerial office is in full control of, and is responsible for all human, material and financial resources which are critical inputs in management of the organization. Hence, by implication, you shall be liable for any breach or contravention, even if caused by anyone acting on your behalf. “Consequently, such liability arising from accountability failure may not cease even after leaving office, as an accounting officer could still be called upon at any time to account for his/her tenure” she stressed. Earlier in his remarks, the Director General, BPP, Mamman Ahmadu, reiterated the need for judicious utilisation of public funds for maximal results that would benefit the populace through provision of critical infrastructure and basic amenities. According to him, “It is important to remind us of the declining price of crude oil, our main source of financing the national budget. This put more pressure on the already insufficient funds for our national development. Consequently, it is important that we collectively ensure judicious use of funds and avoid bad procurement practices that can lead to inefficient procurements, litigations, inflated contracts and abandoned projects.” The retreat with the theme ‘Procurement Implementation in the new budget cycle’ was aimed at reviewing the performances of MDAs in the 2019 financial year in order to identify areas of weaknesses with a view to make the procurement procedures for 2020 more efficient. JUST IN: Buhari fires Oyo-Ita, appoints Yemi-Esan acting HoS Buhari fires Oyo-Ita, extends tenure of 7 perm secs FG inaugurates c’ttee on contract appointments, sabbatical for senior officers