Suspected armed robbers have attacked a newspaper distributor who combines as a school feeding contractor in Kebbi state, identified as retired Navy Captain Abubakar El-Yakub, along Sahara area, off Emir Yahya road in Sokoto metropolis, shooting his errand boy, Sama’ila Isa. The robbers were said to have carted away over five million Naira allegedly belonging to the distributor. Daily Trust learnt that the distributor came from Argungu in Kebbi State to return unsold newspapers and collect fresh editions when the incident happened. He was said to have made a stopover at the Sokoto Main branch of the First Bank Nigeria Plc where he withdrew the money around 11am on Thursday, which he kept in the trunk of his Peugeot 406 car. Thereafter he drove to Sahara area to drop the newspapers. Unknown to him, he was being trailed by the robbers in a yellow Toyota Corolla vehicle. While he was in the office of one of his business partners to sort things out, the robbers struck and shot his errand boy in the leg. According to eye witness accounts, the robbers were four in number and came in a yellow Toyota Corolla. “They were holding AK47 and wore masks to hide their identities. They trailed him from the bank to Emir Yahya road, where he returned the unsold newspapers. “We were just offloading the papers from his 406 Peugeot vehicle, when they struck. We initially mistook them for security operatives because of the way they dressed until they started firing shots, shouting where is the key? After collecting the key from the boy, they shot him twice on his legs, before opening the car, removing the money, and driving away,” one of the witnesses said. The distributor however refused to grant any interview on the incidence, but Isa who was rushed to the Specialist Hospital for treatment told our reporter that they were deceived by the armed robbers’ mode of dress in security outfit, only that they were wearing masks on their faces. Spokesman of the Sokoto State Police Command, DSP Muhammad Sadiq who confirmed the incident said efforts are being intensified to track down the criminals. In Zamfara, cops are ‘gunrunners’ Robbers kill man for failing to give N200,000 How I converted criminals' hideout to golf course – Kebbi Deputy Governor