Many stakeholders have welcomed the move by the Federal Government to ban certain categories of cargoes on the highways as soon as the Lagos-Ibadan railway project is completed. Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, hinted on the plan last week that some types of container-laden vehicles would be taken off the roads. This is even as he expressed optimism that the completion of ongoing rail projects in the country would bring down transport fares as the rail transport fares will be subsidized and also reduce pressure on the roads. He said: “As soon as we finish these rail projects, there are some types of cargo that will not go on road, whether you like it or not. “No matter what we charge, it will not be the same as what we charge you on goods. When the FG does rail projects, it is the job of the state governments to do roads to the different railway stations,” the minister said. Daily Trust reports that the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge project with extension to Apapa Port is expected to be completed in the second quarter of this year as planned by the Federal Government. Amaechi had put pressure on the contractor, the China Civil Engineering and Construction Corporation (CCECC) to deliver the project on schedule to ease the pressure on the road. Speaking with our correspondent yesterday, the Zonal Commanding Officer of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) representing Lagos and Ogun State, Asst. Corps Marshal Samuel Obayemi, said the pressure on the roads would reduce once the train service comes fully on stream. He said the FRSC has been working hard to control the movement of heavy duty vehicles to ensure they comply with road traffic regulations. He said the FRSC Corps Marshal, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi had given the officers marching order to arrest and impound container-laden vehicles that were not properly latched. But the ZCO reiterated that efficient inter-modal transportation would reduce the pressure on the roads and highways. He said having an efficient water and rail transportation system would reduce the traffic gridlock on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. Who’ll Move  Abuja-Kaduna Electric Railway Project from Dreamland to Reality? Lagos-Ibadan rail project not about 2019 elections, says Amaechi Lagos-Ibadan rail completion a tall dream