The Ekiti State government has approved the sum of N248,522,900 for payment of the May/June 2020 West African Certificate Examination fees of the Senior Secondary 3 students in public secondary schools in the state. The amount was approved for the enrolment of 14,242 final year students billed to sit for the May/June examination. Last year, the state government paid over N227 million as WAEC fees for 13,390 candidates in SS3 in public secondary schools in the state. The Ekiti State Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mr Foluso Daramola, who made this known in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, warned the principals and registrars of all public secondary schools in the state against collecting from any student any fee not approved by the state government. According to Daramola, the government was committed to making education accessible to all and sundry in the state, regardless of their origin and status. He, therefore, called on parents and guardians to always make the education of their children a priority in the scheme of things. He disclosed that government had in 2019 procured 52,000 units of school furniture for public secondary schools across the state as part of efforts aimed at providing basic infrastructural facilities in schools. Daramola noted that the state government had also been paying running grants to all public primary and secondary schools in the state, adding that about N5m was being released as monthly feeding and maintenance grants to three special schools in the state. He added that the state government would continue to take the necessary steps in the education sector despite the limited resources at its disposal. The Commissioner called on individuals, philanthropists and corporate organizations to contribute to the educational development of the state through the institution of scholarship awards for brilliant but indigent students.  Stakeholders praise Ekiti gov’t over exam fees payment NGO pays N3.5mln WAEC fees of 1,650 Kogi students Students’ poor WAEC, NECO exams results discouraging govts’ sponsorship