Governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its Board of Trustees (BoT) have asked the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to adopt the principle of inclusiveness to ensure free, fair and credible state congresses. The PDP has commenced the process of electing new executives of the party in 26 states. The affected states are Abia, Akwa Ibom, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Gombe, Imo, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Nasarawa, Niger, Ondo, Plateau, Rivers, Sokoto, Taraba and the FCT. Speaking during the opening session of the 89th Emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting on Thursday in Abuja, the governor of Sokoto state and Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, who spoke on behalf of his colleagues said credible polls would engender good leadership. “I assure you that we shall continue to have synergy with the NWC and we shall continue to work together and support our party that is waxing stronger every day. “Chairman (Secondus), as we go into congresses we are appealing that we shall be all inclusive in whatever we are going to do. We shall be transparent and be accommodating and be free and fair in the conduct of the congresses. “The world is watching us and expecting us to build on what we have started with our last convention in Port Harcourt. “Free, fair congresses that will engender leadership of our party from the grassroots to ward level, to local government level and to state level. Mr Chairman, we are with you, by you, all the way. “This is a very clear testimony of our position as governors on the platform of this party to continue to work together in unity and collaborate with the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party and the leadership of our great party,” Tambuwal said. Similarly, the Chairman of the party’s Board of Trustees (BoT), Senator Walid Jibrin said, “May I therefore advise that the approved guidelines must be seriously adhered to in order not to fall into a dangerous situation that affected APC in Zamfara state.” “The congresses must be free, fair and very transparent at all levels. Registered members must be allowed to exercise their democratic rights at all levels as enshrined in the party’s constitution,” he added. How governors fought attempt to whittle down their influence in PDP We’ll work with NWC to strengthen PDP, deepen democracy — Tambuwal PDP raises panel to probe 2019 polls