 Governor Bello Muhammad Matawalle of Zamfara State yesterday blasted his predecessor in office, Abdulaziz Yari, describing him as a pathetic loser  in the political arena of the state and the country in general. Speaking when he received members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who decamped to the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Matawalle decried the conduct of Yari in the state. “You were reported to have described me as not your mate in politics which is quite right because you know you are my former driver and I was one of your political mentors”, he said. He warned his predecessor to keep his distance from his administration or face his political wrath. “You have been busy going round high places, black painting my administration because you are still not sensible enough to accept the will of Allah,” he said. Matawalle described the defection of the nine local government chairmen in the state from the APC to PDP as their personal choice, adding that if he had wanted to force them to join his own party, he would have done that long ago. “I have worked amicably with these chairmen for nine months now and still there are others who are yet to join my party. I call on any chairman to announce to the world if I forced him to join my party,” the governor said. Governor Matawalle called on all citizens in the state to distinguish between the chaff and the grain so that the much needed peace and progress of the state can be fully achieved and sustained. However, the vice chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Alhaji Sani Gwamna Mayanchi said Matawalle did not win election in Zamfara state unlike his predecessor Yari who won governorship elections twice. “Governor Matawalle must accept this painful fact that ex-governor Yari remains his boss in politics and because when Matawalle was appointed commissioner, Yari was party chairman, who is the boss between an appointee and a party chairman?” he said. Zamfara jumbo allowance: Yari paid self N360m from state pension funds - Matawalle No more allowances for past political office holders in Zamfara Yari instigating violence, insecurity in Zamfara — Gov Matawalle