..as deal sealed on repatriation  The agreement signed Monday by the United States Government, the Bailiwick of Jersey, and the Nigerian Government for the return of over $308m Abacha loot requires Nigeria to repay any funds lost as a result of any new corruption or fraud to the account established to hold the returned assets. This was contained in a statement yesterday by Morgan Ortagus, the spokesperson of the State Department at the end of the signing of the agreement. The statement said the agreement also included mechanisms for monitoring the implementation and external oversight of the three infrastructure projects to be executed in strategic economic zones across Nigeria by the Nigerian Independent Sovereign Authority. To ensure that the funds are used responsibly and for the good of the nation The statement titled “Return of Stolen Assets to the Nigerian People” as released yesterday by the presidential media aide, Garba Shehu, read: “On February 3, the State Department hosted a ceremony for the signing of an agreement between the U.S. government, the Bailiwick of Jersey, and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the return of more than $308m to the Nigerian people.  In the 1990s, the assets were stolen by former military dictator Sani Abacha, and stashed abroad.  More than 20 years later, these assets are being returned to the Nigerian people. “The funds will be used by the Nigerian Independent Sovereign Authority for three infrastructure projects in strategic economic zones across Nigeria.  To ensure that the funds are used responsibly and for the good of the nation, the agreement includes mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of these projects as well as external oversight, and it requires Nigeria to repay any funds lost as a result of any new corruption or fraud to the account established to hold the returned assets. “This return reflects the growing international consensus that countries must work together to ensure stolen assets are returned in a transparent and accountable manner.   It is also consistent with the commitments both the United States and Nigeria made under the principles agreed to at the 2017 Global Forum on Asset Recovery co-hosted by the United States and the United Kingdom. “This agreement is a symbol of the weight that the United States government places on the fight against corruption.  We welcome President Buhari’s personal commitment to that fight, and we will continue to support civil society and other Nigerian efforts to combat corruption at all levels.  The fight against corruption is an investment in the future of Nigeria.”  US, Nigeria sign agreement on Abacha loot return Supreme Court delivers verdict on Abacha loot Jan 17 Nigeria signs pact to return $321m Abacha loot