The Chief of Defence Staff, General Aboyomi Olonisakin, yesterday charged officers and men of the security forces to drop unnecessary ego and rivalry, and work together to secure Nigeria from insurgency. Olonisakin described synergy among security personnel as essential to achieving the common objective of securing the country. He said: “To succeed in the war against terrorism and secure the country from threat, synergy and effective collaboration between security forces becomes imperative.” He said the required synergy transcends the three services of the Armed Forces to the paramilitary and even Non Governmental Organisations and other stakeholders in the theatre of operation. The CDS, who gave the charge at the maiden Joint Counter Terrorism and Counter Insurgency (CTCOIN) seminar for students of Senior Course 42 of the Armed Forces Command and Staff College (AFCSC) in Jaji, Kaduna State, described the theme of the seminar: ”Enhancing Jointness in CTCOIN Operations through Collaboration” as apt and timely considering the role currently played by the Armed Forces and other security agencies in confronting the various security threats across the nation. ”There is no doubt that our security forces require synergy and effective collaboration to succeed in the discharge of the onerous task of securing the nation. This synergy is essential and vital to achieving our common objective of securing Nigeria. It will also help in formulating policies and assist the armed forces in its operations.” Olonisakin said the seminar was appropriate as majority of the students would be deployed to the field in command and staff appointments upon graduation from the College, adding that, ”In these appointments, you would be required to take critical decisions that would determine the fate of officers and men under your command.” He urged the students who are in the ranks of Major to display maturity and jettison all the hindrances to synergy and cooperation, such as ego and rivalry.  Jordan collaborate with Nigeria on ending terrorism Military strategizing to secure oil sector– CDS Armed Forces committed to restoring normalcy- CDS