Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers have abducted a man, Abdullahi Otto, and his pregnant wife, Maimuna Abdullahi at Unguwar Kekeshi in Abaji Area Council. A family member of the victims, who preferred anonymity, said the incident happened around 10:34 pm on Saturday after the gunmen in their large numbers with sophisticated weapons invaded the victims’ house in the area. He said the gunmen shot several times  into the air to scare neighbours from raising alarm. He said the family has established  contact with the kidnappers, and they were demanding N3 million ransom from the family before the victims would be released. But the family has been pleading with them to collect N600, 000  and they have refused as they are insisting on N3 million.  Where will the family get this kind of money?” Our reporter also learnt that the kidnapped elderly brother of the president of the FCT NULGE, Mohammed Yakubu, who was abducted last Sunday, along Rubochi – Nuku village in Abaji, has regained his freedom after payment of N1 million to them. A family member of the victim, who preferred anonymity, told our reporter yesterday that the victim regained his freedom on Friday, around 5:12 pm at a forest in Nuku village. “He is on admission at the hospital receiving treatment because of what he passed through in captivity,” he said. When contacted, the spokesman of the FCT police command, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said he was not aware of the kidnapped man and his pregnant wife but said he will find out. He confirmed the release of the elder brother of the FCT NULGE president, Mohammed Yakubu, but said no ransom was paid. He also said the command has rescued and reunited the kidnapped 17 year -old student of Federal Government Girls College (FGC) Rubochi, Abuja, Gift Abikor, with her family. A statement by the command spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said the victim who was kidnapped on Tuesday, 28th January, 2020, in Rubochi, was  rescued unhurt at about 8:30 pm on 31st January, 2020. He reassured FCT residents of its commitment to protecting lives and property, while appreciating residents for their support with relevant information.  Kidnapped Abaji LEA scribe’s wife, trader released after N3.4m ransom Gunmen kidnap Imam’s sons, 1 other in Abaji Kidnappers abduct Abaji LEA secretary’s wife, demand N10m ransom