The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has, in collaboration with the World Bank, launched the National Census of Commercial Industrial Businesses (NCCIB) in Kaduna in order to generate relevant information to aid effective monitoring and evaluation of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Speaking at the stakeholders sensitization workshop on NCCIB, Statistician-General of Nigeria, Yemi Kale, explained that Nigeria as a developing economy needed a robust and reliable statistical information to be able to manage critical sectors such as education, health, agriculture, commerce and industry and environment. Kale said: “As a way of guaranteeing the quality and integrity of the information emanating from the exercise, the NBS, in collaboration with the World Bank, will deploy the use of modern Information Communication Technology (ICT) at every stage of the conduct of the census”. Speaking further, the statistician-general who was represented by the Head, Corporate Planning and Technical Coordination of NBS, noted that the forum was intended to instill a high sense of ownership and inclusion in “our quest to provide government and other users of statistics with adequate, reliable and timely statistical information for evidence-based policy formulation. To attain sustainability in the generation of quality and timely statistics, there is need for sustained cooperation and collaboration of all relevant stakeholders ranging from the data producing agencies to the supplier of information and to the user.” He further said, “We are in an era where statistics and IT have become inevitable tools in the management of businesses and the general economy. For this reason, it has become necessary now than ever before to collaborate with an association like yours with a view to improving the quantum and quality of statistics needed for planning, policy formulation, monitoring and evaluation of government programmes and projects.” He stressed that the census was to aid effective tracking of the growth of the economy and the contribution of all relevant sectors, as it was designed to complement other important surveys such as the Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS), National Nutrition and Health Survey (NNHS), General Household Survey-Panel; and the Nigeria Living Standard Survey (NLSS). “In specific terms, the census will help us to provide answers to questions such as: How many business enterprises do we have in each state of the federation, where are these businesses located, what is the employment strength of these businesses as well as the capacity utilisation of these businesses? “It will also help us to determine the structure of enterprises in Nigeria by sectors and the spread across the states and all the 774 local government areas. In addition, the census will further help us to classify businesses into micro, small, medium and large establishments,” he added. In his remarks, the Kaduna State Commissioner for Economic Planning and Development, Thomas Gyang, said the present administration placed high premium on statistical information as an ingredient for effective planning and implementation of its policies and programmes. NBS mines data on food insecurity, 2.3m displaced Nigerians NBS to conduct poverty, living standards survey Statistics bureau urges  agencies, coys to supply job data