Some indigenes of Iloro-Ekiti, in Ijero Local Government Area of Ekiti State, yesterday marched through the streets in the community to protest against the newly installed traditional ruler of the town, Oba Femi Olugbesoye, over what they called victimization of his opponents and high-handedness. The protesters, comprising chiefs, youths and women, accused Oba Olugbesoye of sponsoring thugs to beat up people opposed to his installation as king. They appealed to Governor Kayode Fayemi to depose him and replace him with their preferred choice, who they said would embrace both his supporters and opponents alike. Responding to the allegation, Oba Olugbesoye, from the Arojojoye ruling house, said the protesters were only engaging in “senseless blackmail”. He dispelled the allegation that he was imposed by “interlopers”, saying it was the turn of his dynasty to fill the vacant stool left by the departed Oluloro, Oba Olu Arowolo. The traditional ruler, Oba Olugbesoye, said his opponents were heating up the situation by shunning meetings convened by the police and government to resolve the issue. The protesters displayed with a traditional stick called Apasa, which was regarded as a taboo and an ominous signal for any Oba. Addressing newsmen during the protest, the Aro of Iloro kingdom, Chief Samuel Agbaje, accused the government of imposing Olugbesoye “in a gestapo manner”. Agbaje said the king had been rejected by Ifa divination and the entire town last September. He alleged that since the Obaship tussle began, the embattled king had been baring his fangs on those that resisted his installation. He further alleged that some gun-wielding thugs attacked him last week in his house and also invaded the homes of Messrs Adelerin Abioye, Chief Ayo Joseph Osasoke, Chief Michael Ogundele and the head of the women wing, Chief Alice Eegunjobi, with intention to banish them from the town. He said, “Oba Olugbesoye was not the choice of the town. He was imposed on us from outside, which is alien to our tradition and we won’t accept it. “There must be a review of his kingship. It has not reached the stage when we will go to court because we believe the government will address the issue properly. But if it fails, we will go to court. “Since Olugbesoye became the king, no traditional rite has been done and this could bring calamity.” Ekiti monarch denies sit-tight syndrome allegation raised by colleagues Ekiti monarch denies sit-tight syndrome allegation Traditional institutions, major mechanism for good governance  -  Fayemi