The South West Regional Security Operation code-named Operation ‘Amotekun’ has finally been adopted by Governors of South West States and the Inspector General of Police (IGP). This forms the outcome of the stakeholders’ summit on community policing involving the Inspector General Mohammed Adamu, the six state governors, commissioners of Police, Commissioner for Justice from the six states, other security agencies in the states, Royal fathers, Community Development Committees (CDCs), and other stakeholders at the Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja. At the end of the meeting, which lasted for about two hours behind closed doors, the IGP and representatives of the six states agreed on the framework of South West Regional Security Network along the line of community policing model proposed by the IGP which would complement Operation Amotekun and the conventional police operations in all local communities in the region. The South West Governors’ Forum Chairman and Governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu, (SAN), speaking on the outcome said: “The Governors of South West and the IGP have held a very fruitful discussion and it is clear now to all of us that, community policing, which the Nigeria Police is anchoring is one that will benefit all of us. We have chosen that we will embrace community in its entirety. “In addition, we have spoken and we want everyone to know that, Amotekun was not conceived as a regional police, but a state-based security outfit. We have come out of this meeting happy and we have agreed on the resolution. We have shed light on dark areas and we are on the same page with the police with respect to these issues.” IGP Adamu substantiated Akeredolu’s claim, saying the participants at the meeting had fine-tuned Operation Amotekun and adopted it to be state-led initiative and not regional. He said: “This is the second meeting we have held with the Governors of Southwest region concerning the creation of Operation Amotekun. The just concluded meeting was to discuss and fine-tune Amotekun. Our conclusion is what the chairman of South West Governors’ Forum has explained. “Amotekun is not a regional security outfit. Every state has one form of security arrangement, whether it is vigilante or neighbourhood watch that is working with security agencies in the states to fight crime. Amotekun is not different from these initiatives. We have agreed that community policing strategy be infused into the Amotekun structure, so that policing will be initiative of the community members.” He said the police would be part of the recruitment, training and deployment of personnel to be assigned for Amotekun operations, adding that the initiative would work in line with community policing model. The host and Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu said the security gathering was part of extensive meetings with the police leadership on adopting new strategies and initiatives towards securing lives and property in the South West. IGP okays S/west security outfit, Amotekun Amotekun: Inside South-West security outfit Before recruiting community police