Governor Udom Emmanuel has stated that a functional social security scheme will serve as panacea for diverse agitations across the country. He made this known on Thursday while playing host to the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige and a team of NSITF officials, who were in Uyo for a two-day retreat. Governor Emmanuel said the NSITF scheme was a welcome development in social security in Nigeria but urges the operators of the Board to step up enlightenment on the scheme to create awareness of its implications and earn the trust of workers. Mr. Emmanuel noted that social security keeps the people calmer and lessens agitation, stressing that Nigeria’s huge population cannot ignore such a scheme. “Any country that this is put in place, the people are calmer and the agitation is much less. We really need this in a country like Nigeria where the population is so huge. I’m also hoping that there will be a time in Nigeria that our social security will really work, because social security in other parts of the world started in this format, where you can take and provide for the days when you are weak,” he said. He however noted that “we need more enlightenment. People still contribute but they don’t know what to do and what steps they need to take. I think in this age of social media, there should be a proper website to educate people, because you need workers’ trust. So awareness from your own side to show that people are saving for their own future”. Governor Emmanuel criticized the seemingly politicization of development programmes and institutions as an impediment to development and drew the minister’s attention to exclusion of Akwa Ibom state from the sovereign wealth fund board despite being the highest contributor to the fund. The Minister for Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, thanked the Akwa Ibom Governor for the warm reception accorded them in the State, describing Uyo as the pride and choice town of Nigeria’s South-south region and the governor as a creditable manager of resources. ‘Why Nigeria must expand its social security scheme Social security: NSITF makes case for the informal sector Social Security: Addressing gaps in our system