The Port Harcourt Zonal Office of Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR)  has taken its ongoing campaign on the benefits of using Liquefied Petrol Gas (LPG), also known as cooking gas, to mosques, churches and markets in Port Harcourt. Briefing journalists shortly after the three-day sensitisation campaign which took the DPR officials to the Central Mosque, Corpus Christi Catholic Church and Mile 3 markets in Port Harcourt, DPR Head of Upstream, Port Harcourt, Alhaji Bala Musa, said the exercise is part of the federal government’s initiative to deepen the use of LPG at the grassroots. Musa said Nigeria, as the third-largest reserves of gas globally,  the federal government is determined to ensure that the reserved gas is utilised for the nation’s socio-economic benefits. The industry expert said: “This is the federal government’s initiative to deepen the use of LPG popularly known as cooking gas. It’s a continuous exercise until we reach out to the grassroots to enlighten the people on the importance of using the LPG. “Government has made a research and found out that we have abundant gas in the country and Nigeria, so we want to start using the gas because it is environmentally friendly and at the same time cheaper. “The use of firewood does not promote a healthy environment. It emits corbonmonozide in the environment and also causes erosion because the users go inside the forest to cut down trees. “It is better to use LPG that is the reason why the federal government has initiated this sensitisation campaign to sensitise the public to start using LPG,” Musa added. In his remarks, the DPR Head of Gas Monitoring and Regulation, Engr. Ajumo Atiyegoba, said the sensitisation campaign is aimed at correcting the erroneous impression that cooking gas constitutes a danger to end-users. He said LPG is cheaper, safer and more efficient just as its use promotes cleaner energy and saves the environment from carbon monoxide pollution. Atiyegoba said DPR is encouraging Nigerian business community, especially those residing in Rivers State, to invest in both LPG gas plants and retail outlets to make cooking gas available in all the rural communities in the state. The Secretary-General of JIBWIS in the state, Alhaji Aliyu, said with the sensitisation campaign, the Muslim community in the state is better informed on the benefits of LPG. FG to inject 600,000 gas cylinders to boost cooking gas penetration FG to rehabilitate Warri, PH, Kaduna refineries for increased gas production Fear, anxiety barrier to clean cooking