The newly elected National President of the Nigerian Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO), Alhaji Yusuf Othman, has solicited the cooperation of all stakeholders in the transportation sector, including relevant government agencies, in the organisation’s renewed efforts to boost transportation business in the country. Othman made the call in his maiden address delivered during the swearing in of the new Executive Council (EXCO) at the association’s 20th Annual General Meeting/Conference held in Abuja. He assured all members of his determination to continue with the legacies of his predecessor and promised to work with the other elected officers as a team in order to realize the socio-economic objectives of the association. The NARTO President reiterated his determination to work with all stakeholders, partners of the association and all agencies of government in order to secure and strengthen the business of transporters in the country. As expected, Alhaji Othman also called on all members, particularly those who contested elections with him and did not win, to work with him in the interest of the association. The new National President, was until his election, the Chairman of the Association in Kaduna State. Before venturing into the business of road transportation, Mr. Othman worked with the defunct Habib Bank (now keystone Bank). Other elected national officers are; Chief Ayoola Sadiku, Deputy National President 1, Prince Okey Okpala, Deputy National President 2,  Rabiu Haruna, Vice National President I Wet Cargo, Abubakar Sidi, Vice National President II Dry Cargo, Mudi Ibrahim, Vice National President III Commuter, Mohammed Alkali Hassan, National Treasurer, and Prince Ganiyu Salami as National Financial Secretary. Others are, Musa Audu National Legal Adviser, Bashir Bello, National Auditor, Emmanuel Wilson Public Relation Officer, Chimebele Ezeokoye Welfare Officer, Sunday Nwatu, Zonal Chairman South East,  David Iwere Zonal Chairman South South, Bola Ogunyele, Zonal Chairman South West, Sani Idi Danfulani, Zonal Chairman North West, Muktar Abubakar Shafa, Zonal Chairman North East, Haruna Sulaimon Kalo, Zonal Chairman North Central. Transport sector is key for development –NARTO president We're losing members to accidents, kidnappings – NARTO President Privatisation is only solution to railway sector — NARTO