Disturbed by evident decay in the state’s education sector, Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State has engaged the services of 14 professors on part-time basis to manage the local education sector for effective implementation of the Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA) project in the state. The 14 professors, alongside eight PhD holders, who are indigenes of the state drawn mainly from Usmanu Danfodio University Sokoto, Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, and Bayero University Kano, as well as other universities across the country, would preside over the affairs of the education sector in each of the 21 local government areas of the state. The state government deemed it necessary to engage the academics with a view to address the educational problem headlong, as each would operate as a part-time chairman, and specifically oversee the local education authority of his local government area of origin. This is based on the belief that the appointees would have firsthand knowledge of the problems afflicting the sector in their respective localities. Speaking during the inauguration of the scholars as committee members for the implementation of BESDA programme in Birnin Kebbi, the governor said his administration has to look for capable hands with a view to ensure that the education programme was not only implemented, but achieved desired success. He said the time for blame-game was over, and noted that the government would not afford to waste the opportunity provided by BESDA towards improving the education sector with particular emphasis on-out-school children, Almajiri and girl-child education. “The systematic decay in the education sector which is largely due to inadequate funding must be tackled. “I must commend you for the sacrifice by accepting to serve as part-time chairmen of local education authorities in the state. I assure you of free access to my office anytime in the course of discharging your duty,” he said. FUDMA: From secondary  school to a ‘federal university’ How realistic is Kano free education policy? page 55