The Director of Petroleum Resources, DPR, Engr. Sarki Auwalu has said that Federal Government through the Department of Petroleum Resourceshas plans to ensure that there is deep penetration of LPG in all the ruralcommunities of Nigeria. Auwalu, who disclosed on  Thursday at a technical workshop organised for LPG depot operators, refilling plants and retailers in Port Harcourt said that with the recent regulatory programs and accelerated drive oftransition from the use of traditional cooking fuel to LPG DPR is changing the game to improve the lives of Nigerians. Represented by the Head of Gas, Dr. Musa Sagi, at the forum, the Director said that the deepening of LPG penetration will bring about socio-economic, Health  and environmental benefits. He said that over the years the Department has made the workshop interactive to provide the opportunity and platform for exchange of ideas between experts and stakeholders in the sector especially in the safeoperation of LPG refilling plants and retailing activities. He said that this year’s theme “Safe Handling, A sureway to Deepening LPG Penetration and Utilization” is timely since it aligns with present administration’s vision for gas sector. “In addition this year has been declared by theHonorable Minister of state for Petroleum, Chief Timpre Sylva as the ‘Year of Gas’. Therefore this engagement is in line with Government’s aspiration of deepening their use of LPG and safely too” “It was reported recently that 95000 women and childrendie annually from the use of firewood in Nigeria. The United Nations and the World Liquified Petroleum Gas Association also published that about  four million, mostly women and children die annually from the use of dirty fuels worldwide”. “With the recent regulatory programs and accelerated drive of transition from the use of traditional cooking fuels to LPG we arechanging the game to improve the lives Nigerians. Clearly, the deepening of LPGpenetration will bring about socioeconomic, health and environmental benefits. It is the desire of the Federal Government to ensure that all the ruralcommunities in Nigeria are using LPG,” he stated. He said that DPR is aware of the challenges in the LPG sector saying that it has taken steps in addressing them. Earlier the Zonal Operations Controller of DPR, Port Harcourt Zonal office, Bassey Nkanga said that the Port-Harcourt Zonal officehas carried out enlightenment program to churches, mosque and markets on theadvantage of using LPG. FG begins clampdown on roadside cooking gas dealers NSCDC arrests 10 suspected illegal LPG operators in A’Ibom Gas explosion: DPR sensitizes LPG plant operators