The five State Governors in the South East Zone said they have adopted the Federal Government’s community policing approach that is indigenous and would allow the traditional rulers and community leaders participate in the recruitment of intakes to form the community police. At the South East Geo-political Zone Security Summit held on Wednesday in Enugu, the Anglican Archbishop of Enugu, Dr Emmanuel Chukwuma, who spoke on-behalf of the leadership of the South East Christian religious bodies, said the insecurity “happening in our nation today is very devastating” The Security Summit themed ‘Strategic Partnership for Effective Community Policing in the South East Geo-Political Zone,’ was the last in the series of such summits organized by the Nigeria Police in the nation’s six geo-political zones. The security summit was attended by five governors in the zone which include Dave Umahi (Ebonyi), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia) Willie Obiano (Anambra) and Hope Uzodinma (Imo) who was represented by his deputy. Others who were at the summit included the Inspector General of Police Muhammed Adamu, the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 82 Division, Nigerian Army, Enugu Maj-Gen Adeboye, heads of other security agencies in the zone, a former IGP Ogbonaya Onovo, Christian religious leaders, traditional rulers  and other stakeholders. Chukwuma said “insecurity has become a worrisome thing as many religious leaders are being kidnapped.” President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nnia Nwodo called on the Inspector General of Police to reduce the number of security check-points saying majority of them only serve as ‘’toll gate” where security men extort money from motorists without doing the necessary security checks. “I once travelled from Enugu to Onitsha. There are 17 security check-points and the way we’re treated here shows that nobody cares. Our farms are daily devastated and the herders that devastate these farms carry AK-47. “…What our people want is to own our domestic policing. We want to have our own native security outfit,” Nwodo said.  Security: North-Central govs strategise on community policing Insecurity: S/east govs create intelligence gathering centre, recruit forest guards Southeast most peaceful in Nigeria – Enugu CP