The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has commenced work on the revision of the Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) registration policy, which is seen as an antidote to Nigeria’s rising security challenge. Though the review will take weeks to conclude, telecom operating companies and many subscribers in the country are sceptical of the government’s new move and the impact it will have on their lives and businesses. Daily Trust reports that the SIM registration initiative – which requires mobile subscribers to register their SIM cards with their respective mobile network operators – was officially kick-started in May, 2010 and ended on June 30, 2013. Fully funded by the NCC, the scheme was marred by telecoms operators’ attitude towards it and the subscribers’ lack of awareness. It was haphazardly done as incomplete data capturing and many other irregularities were later detected. This rendered the whole exercise useless as kidnappers, internet fraudsters and other criminals continued to perpetrate their nefarious activities without being traced through their mobile lines. Realising that criminals still used their mobile lines to commit crimes, the NCC in 2015 directed the telecom operators to compel their subscribers to do another round of registration. Subscribers got messages from the operators for the new registration, but many didn’t comply and they were asked to be blocked by the telecom companies An operator, MTN Nigeria got a hefty fine for refusing to cut off thousands of unregistered SIM cards used by its subscribers. However, the insecurity issue refused to abate even as criminals continued to use commit crimes through SIM cards. This continued until last year when the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami issued another directive to NCC to block about 2.2m SIM cards for registering their data improperly. Just two weeks ago, the Federal Government made another move to review the SIM card registration policy to curb kidnapping and banditry. A directive issued by Pantami to NCC, asked the NCC to revise the policy on SIM Card registration and usage by blocking all the loopholes in the current policy. He said the revision of the policy was based on the feedback received from the security agencies following the successful revalidation of improperly registered SIM cards in September 2019 and the blocking of those that failed to revalidate their SIMs. The updated policy, according to him, is expected ensure that the National Identity Number becomes a prerequisite for Nigerians registering new SIM cards (while for foreigners, their passports and visas should be used), while already registered SIM cards are to be updated with National Identity Number before 1st December, 2020. He also directed that NCC must ensure that only fully accredited agents support the SIM card registration process without pre-registering SIM cards themselves, while the eventual registration should be done by the operators. If the new policy becomes operational, government is likely to limit the maximum numbers of SIM Cards a single individual could register as his or hers to three to curb kidnapping and banditry. But NCC’s Director of Public Affairs, Dr Henry Nkemadu, exclusively told Daily Trust via a text message that work had begun on the review and it would takes weeks before it would be concluded. The National President of National Telecommunications Subscribers of Nigeria (NATCOMS), Chief Deolu Ogunbanj said the FG’s move to review SIM card policy was a welcome development. He said nothing was too big to sacrifice for national security and subscribers should bear with the government on its new move. ‘’ We are fully in support of the SIM card policy review. It is to stem the high rate of insecurity in the country. A law-abiding subscriber should not apprehensive of the new move because is for the good of all’’, Ogunbanjo said. The telecom operators said they have nothing against the government move for now since the policy is still in the process of review. The operators through their association, Association of Licensed Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ALTON) however said shouldn’t infringe on their rights with new policy. ALTON President, Engr Gbenga Adebayo said telecom operators were all in for any policy that could improve the security situation in the country. The 2003 Nigerian Communications Act  mandates that network service providers assist authorities in preventing crime and protecting national security. Regulations for enforcing it grant senior police officers power to authorize requests to obtain “call data” from telecom companies without a judicial warrant. The data includes where and when regular phone calls and SMS messages took place and between which numbers. Nigeria has over 184 million active mobile phone lines, with roughly two million lines added every month to service its estimated 190 million people, according to 2019 data released by NCC. SIM card ownership for these lines is tracked under a 2011 regulation, mandating the collection of personal information, including fingerprints and photos that security agents can access without a warrant as long as a senior officer gives written approval. Other NCC regulations released in October 2019, grant law enforcement agents permissions to intercept communications under certain circumstances.  Seven days after close of SIM registration, subscribers plead for extension NCC hosts capacity building workshop for Nigerian Judges 95m subscribers have invalid SIM data – NCC