Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited (MESL), the concessionaire for Kainji and Jebba hydropower plants has said it is targeting the recovery of 1,098 megawatts (MW) of electricity generation from the plants in Niger state. The Managing Director of MESL, Engr. Lamu Audu revealed this in Abuja recently while signing an agreement between MESL and Andritz Hydro, a foreign firm contracted to rehabilitate Unit 2G6 power turbine at the Jebba power plant. Audu said MESL was being proactive to catch up with the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) which wheels power from the plants to the Distribution Companies (DisCos). TCN targets 20,000MW wheeling capacity by 2022 and MESL aspires to be the largest power producer in the national grid. The MESL boss said since taking over the operations of the plant in 2013, the firm has recovered over 400MW power generation capacity that lifted the plants’ capacity to 922MW. The Jebba Unit 2G6 is a 96.4MW capacity turbine which was gutted by fire in 2009 before the power sector privatization. MESL said it has awarded the contract to Andritz who manufactured the turbine to rehabilitate it within two years at an estimated cost of 32 million Euros and will be delivered in the first quarter of 2022. Audu also said MESL signed a pact to recover the Unit 1G7 turbine at the Kainji power plant in 2017, noting that the ready turbine will be commissioned in the fourth quarter of 2020 to add another 80MW. He said on completion of the Jebba turbine repairs in 2022, MESL would have recovered 1,098MW nearly reaching the 1,338MW installed capacity of the plants. Chairman of the board of MESL, Col. Sani Bello (Rtd) called on government to provide policy interventions that will promote a sustainable electricity market especially in the prompt clearance of the company’s invoices for generated power. The Director of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Dr. Alex Okoh said the feats of MESL have remained a positive testimony of the power sector privatization in Nigeria. “We are pleased to note that the key performance targets that were set in the performance agreement are being met by MESL. And we see the occasion of today as a milestone that is being met towards the complete turnaround of the two plants,” Okoh said. The Director General of Infrastructure Concession and Regulatory Commission (ICRC), Engr. Chidi Izuwah said the concession of the hydropower plants is making impacts and that the gains from MESL shows the power of government partnering with private firms. “We will continue to monitor this concession and will support you in any way to make the concession successful,” Izuwah assured. The Minister of State, Power, Mr Goddy Jeddy-Agba in an earlier meeting with officials of MESL had endorsed the turbine reform project by MESL. While receiving the officials along with officials of the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) of the turbine, Andritz Hydro GmbH, Agba had lauded MESL for the turnaround of the plants since it took over the operation in 2013. He said: “I want to assure you that on behalf of my colleague and I that the federal government will work to make the power sector viable and move forward, people friendly above all.” Mainstream recovers 69% of 1,338MW Kainji, Jebba power stations Mainstream recovers 69% of 1,338MW Kainji, Jebba power stations Why 922MW Kainji, Jebba hydros could raise energy export