A chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Engr. Bala Ka’oje, has advocated for a review of the constitution to devolve more power to state governments to address the rising security threats across the country. Ka’oje, a former minister of Sports and Youths Development, said in a statement issued yesterday that one of the ways to achieve that was through a national conference. He recalled that the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan had in 2014 organised a National Conference whose resolutions and recommendations were never implemented. He said though Nigeria had gone a long way since independence, things appeared to either be falling out of place or becoming difficult to manage as governance of the nation seemed to be “demanding for some panel beating and change”. He, however, voiced optimism that President Muhammadu Buhari can do it and open a new chapter by not only refocusing the nation to prosperity and growth but also achieving peaceful coexistence in the country. Ka’oje, who stated that the time had come for Nigeria to change its style of governance, said, “Today, because of the mistakes of the past, many things are falling apart of which solutions must be sought quickly. “This is achievable through the conduct of a national conference to be organised by the president. “There should be an assemblage of egg-heads from constitutional experts, political scientists and highly experienced technocrats to come up with the modalities. “What is needed is a re-jigging of the 1999 Constitution acceptable by all and ushering in a new direction in the governance of the nation from the new leadership that will emerge in 2023 general elections.” The APC chieftain, who noted that several states are unable to sustain salary payments and other emoluments, warned that “we should not toy with our diversity and endowments as a nation, well recognized by the whole world for what we are.” He rued that the country had not been able to sufficiently stimulate high-level productivity and development with different heads of state over the past 59 years. Ka’Oje wants FG to reconsider scrapping of NSC Ka’oje tasks administrators on sports at the grassroots Page 45 stories