Operatives of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested the Students Union President of the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Taiwo Olatunji Adegboye, for alleged cultism. Adegboye was arrested alongside one Olanrewaju Taiwo, following information received from members of the public in the area by the police at the Ilaro Divisional Headquarters. Residents were said to have told the police that a group of people suspected to be cultists were sighted in the bush at the Gbogidi area of Ilaro, Yewa South local government, where they were allegedly initiating new members into the group. A statement by the police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, yesterday said working on the information, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Ilaro division, Chief Superintendent Olayemi Jacob, mobilized his patrol team and moved to the scene, where the two suspects were arrested. Oyeyemi said that while some members of the public assisted in the arrest, other members of the group escaped through the bush. “The two arrested cultists, who were in full regalia of the dreaded Black Axe cult group, have been taken into custody at the Ilaro Divisional Headquarters, where they are being currently interrogated,” he said. Oyeyemi added that the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the Anti-Cult section of the Ogun State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for investigation. Meanwhile, the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, has suspended Adegboye for alleged involvement in cultism. A statement signed and made available to newsmen yesterday in Abeokuta by the Deputy Registrar (Public Relations), Sola Abiala, said the suspension was in line with an act establishing the Polytechnic and the provision of the Students Handbook. Abiala added that the institution took the decision pending the suspect’s appearance before the Students Disciplinary Committee to establish his culpability or otherwise. “This is consequent upon the foiling of the meeting of some cult groups from the neighbouring community by the security architecture and network of the Polytechnic and the local vigilante group, in conjunction with the police and the Directorate of State Security. The Management is using this medium to re-emphasize its zero tolerance for cultism and other misdemeanours,” Abiala said.  Ogun monarch’s murder: Family accuses police of shielding prime suspect, others 3 herdsmen arrested in Ogun over possession of firearms Hunger forced me into snatching motorcycle – Suspect