The Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) Plc, plans to acquire multibillion naira ground support equipment to further consolidate on its operation and sustain the gains of 2019. Managing Director of SAHCO, Mr. Basil Agboarumi stated this at the Clients Appreciation Dinner organized by the company as a way of expressing gratitude to its clients. The ceremony featured the unveiling of SIFAX-SAHCO Travels, a Travel Management Company (TMC) armnof the parent company Sifax Group that offers flight booking, corporate travels, protocol services, holiday packages, ticket reservation, cruises, among others. The MD disclosed that in 2019, the company acquired a fleet of ultra-modern Ground Support Equipment, including high loaders, motorized steps, baggage conveyor belt loaders, ground power units, Tow tractors, slave pallets, container pallets and baggage carts, fitted with proximity censors. He said, “We plan to sustain the gains of 2019, we are at an advanced stage to procure more equipment fitted with latest technology to meet up with our projected ever expanding clientele, we intend to expand our perishable export warehouse, complete our second commercial building to provide more office space for our clients while we are determined to serve you with a well-trained manpower at all levels.  I use this medium to say thank you for your invaluable and immense support and partnership”, he added. He pledged that the company would continue to offer its clients safe, speedy and excellent services, in accordance with  best practices. The parent company, SIFAX group said SAHCO since inception has made giant strides in the aviation sector and the country’s economy at large The Chairman, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, represented by Mr. Chike Ogeah, Vice chairman, SAHCO Plc, also used the occasion to praise its clients, saying ‘without you, we wouldn’t have made this progress’. He urged Nigerians to buy the shares of the company, adding that, ‘everything we are doing is transparent, we are a growing company, what we do is unique but we pray for a stable aviation climate and we call on authorities to start doing things properly’. Ground handling services are  under-priced in Nigeria – SAHCO MD/CEO SAHCO, ABX explore seamless transport of farm products SAHCOL acquires passenger handling devices