The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the United States Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) have signed a $1.1 million grant as part funding for the NNPC-Abuja Independent Power Project (IPP) On completion, the plant is designed to generate 1,350 megawatts (MW) of electricity into the national grid. The signing of the pact between the NNPC, the USTDA and General Electric took place  on Tuesday at the ongoing Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) in Abuja. The Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, signed on behalf of the NNPC while the U.S ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Beth Leonard, signed for the U.S agency. Kyari said the plan by the corporation to build the 1,350mw power plant in Abuja was part of the national strategy to monetize the abundant natural gas resources in the country. Speaking on the project, the Acting Director USTDA, Thomas Hardy, said the $1.1m is the investment of the USDTA for the feasibility studies that will drive and make case for the bankability of the project. “The goal of USTDA is to make sure the project is viable and in a way that will increase the likelihood of implementation financing whether it’s from World Bank or the Export Import Bank,” Hardy said. He explained that the fund the USTDA is investing in the project does not require counterpart funding from Nigeria as the USTDA has made a 100 per cent commitment to the project. Daily Trust gathered that the Abuja 1,350mw Independent Power Plant (IPP) would leverage on the existing natural gas resources from the NNPC Upstream and the proposed Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) Gas pipeline to boost the nation’s revenue base and generate employment opportunities for the youth. Besides generating 1350MW into the national grid, the project would help to decongest the over-voltage on transmission network coming from closely located power generating companies in the gas producing areas. It was also gathered that the project would be co-financed by the NNPC and its strategic partner, GE/CMEC, with a combination of Debt-Equity sharing ratio of 70%:30%. So far, effort had been put into developing the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the project. NNPC, US agency sign $1.16m grant for new Abuja Power Plant NNPC secures $1.16m US grant for 1,350MW Abuja Power Plant NNPC secures $1.16m for Abuja power plant