Most Bayelsans are in high spirits ahead of the Friday 14, 2020 swearing in of Chief David Lyon as the new governor of Bayelsa State, our correspondent reports. The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate had defeated the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s Senator Douye Diri in the November 16, 2019 governorship election in the state, thereby making history as the first person outside PDP to win the governorship election in the state since 1999. Our correspondent reports that members of the APC in the state have observed two days fasting and special prayers to usher in the new administration. The party members ended the fasting yesterday which they said was to seek divine direction for the incoming administration Lyon will take the oath of office at a ceremony at Sampson Siasia sports complex in Yenagoa. Meanwhile, outgoing Governor Henry Seriake Dickson has gone far in commissioning most of the projects he executed. Some of the key projects commissioned by Dickson as part of the activities to handover to the new government on Friday, are the Bayelsa International Airport, International golf course, Sampson Siasia sports complex, facilities at the newly established Bayelsa Medical University, roads and bridges among others. Last week, the commissioner for Works, Mr. Godwin Konyefa, disclosed that the outgoing administration of Governor Dickson earmarked 84 out of 105 health centres built by the government in all the wards in the state and several road projects for commissioning before Friday. He said Governor Dickson has directed that all projects near 90 percent completion must be completed and commissioned for the benefit of Bayelsans before he leaves office. A source from the Creek Haven, the Bayelsa government house, who spoke with Daily Trust on condition of anonymity, disclosed that Governor Dickson and other top government officials have already removed their personal belongings from the government house and their offices in preparation for the handing over. Also, the outgoing and incoming administrations transition committees met last week to sort out the files ahead of the inauguration. Governor Dickson is expected to address his last press conference as governor of the state, as well as preside over the valedictory state executive council meeting on Thursday. 48hrs to Bayelsa gov’ship: High Court sacks APC candidate as Appeal Court reinstates deputy Lyon, Diri set to clash in Bayelsa gov’ship contest Bayelsa election: Omo-Agege congratulates David Lyon