The Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) has assured that its approach to resolving bank failures is holistic and that it will continue to ensure depositors’ interest is not put at risk by any insured bank in the country. The corporation’s Assistant Director Insurance & Surveillance Department, Mr. John Abiodun, made this promise at the FICAN Quarterly Conference held weekend in Abuja. He said NDIC only sees as effective any resolution that tries to rescue a bank rather than allow it go under adding that, liquation is often the last resort. “Effective resolution is a series of systemic action designed to end a bank’s distressed condition and it is aimed at ensuring minimum disruption to the payment system, speedy payment to insured depositors and quick realization of assets for the benefits of uninsured depositors and creditors” he stated. The liquidation of a failed bank through revocation of license becomes the final bus stop when all efforts made by the shareholders and regulatory authorities do not yield the desired result he said. According to him, the adoption of various bank problem resolution options had helped to enhance confidence in the nation’s banking system thereby promoting financial system stability. Abiodun explained that the NDIC has diligently executed its mandate of Deposit Guarantee, Distress Resolution and Liquidation since its inception in 1989 till date. Based on that he said the liquidation activities of NDIC as at December 2019 covered a total of 425 institutions, comprising of 51 DMBs, 325 MFBs and 51 PMBs. “Through efficient and diligent liquidation activities, the Corporation has successfully paid in full the deposits of the Customers of 18 DMBs, (Both insured and uninsured) while  payment to Depositors of Fortune International Bank, Triumph Bank and Peak Merchant Bank was put on hold as at end of 2019 due to litigation challenging the revocation of their operating licence” he explained. According to him, during resolution a bank’s rating is carried out through the analysis of reports to assess their ability to meet prudential ratios in respect of capital adequacy, asset quality, earnings, liquidity, profitability. Apart from the financial data that is used to determine a bank’s rating, he listed  some other judgemental factors being applied as including “the existence of boardroom squabbles, window dressing of financial statements, distress borrowing (paying high interest rate on deposits), operation of a bank within a bank and financial difficulties.” NDIC: Restoring confidence in banking industry NDIC to customers: Report trapped deposits in failed banks How Skye Bank was ran down by directors – NDIC