The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) College of Education, Zuba, is set to convocate 12, 969 students during its combined convocation ceremony due to hold on Saturday. The provost of the college, Dr Mohammed Gambo Hamza, stated this in an interview with journalists yesterday. He said the convocation is just the second in the history of the college, hence it was a big event for both the students and the lecturers. Dr Hamza said the ceremony is significant to the institution because it is a pointer to the achievements of the management of the college which has ensured that   teacher requirement for both primary and post-primary schools in the FCT and its environs are provided. “Ours is to provide qualified teachers that are going to teach in primary and post primary schools. When we came on board, we discovered that since the convocation that took place in September 2013, there has been no convocation. We tried by all means to see that we convocate all the backlog from 2010-2018 and all their certificates are duly signed,” he said. The provost also said the college has moved some of its departments to the permanent site. “The Department of Physical and Health Education has already relocated to the site. We have electrified the site and light is available. Our major predicament on the permanent site is parameter fencing, access road and road networks that will connect the buildings but this year we are gradually going to relocate. “There is great hostel challenge in the college. FCT College of Education is like off-campus because the available hostel accommodates only 5% of the students. Considering the percentage, we can say the school is off-campus but students are mostly staying in the community around the school. This is why we are appealing to the government to come to our aid on building hostels,” he added.  Federal Poly Damaturu convocates 17 sets of Graduands Eke Chukwudi: Improved budgetary allocation will lift standards at National Institute for Sports A Comparison of Everyday University Vocabularies in Nigeria, America, and Britain (III)