AXA Mansard Investments, has partnered REACH Technologies, a pan-African transaction informatics company, on the distribution of its money market fund. A statement issued on the collaboration indicated that the partnership will see the two companies bring money market investments closer to the public and to make it easier to invest in. In addition to AXA Mansard’s MyAXA app, AXA Mansard’s money market fund, is now accessible through the REACH app. The partners maintained that the AXA Mansard Money Market Fund was identified as the ideal investment fund suitable for deployment on the REACH App,  meaning that users of the REACH App, can now sign up to the money market fund within the application and access all services related to the fund, including account monitoring, making payments and initiating liquidation requests. Mr. Deji Tunde-Anjous, the Chief Executive Officer of the investment company, said: “Developing a savings/investments culture is now much easier and achievable using the AXA Mansard Money Market Fund which is now accessible using the REACH app. “The AXA Mansard Money Market Fund is a professionally managed fund which enables a subscriber to access a diversified portfolio of securities, and is also liquid – enabling a subscriber enter and exit conveniently. REACH Technologies is a transaction informatics company that analyses and interprets Africa’s transaction data to make it valuable to individuals, communities, retailers and brands. Using the REACH app, individuals in Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya and Qatar can track their spending, budget smart, get personalised finance tips and obtain small hassle-free loans. Speaking on the partnership, J.R Kanu, Chief Executive of the technology company, said: “We have admired the superior performance of AXA Mansard’s funds over the years as well as the professionals leading the company. Thus, when it was time to onboard a funds manager, AXA Mansard was a natural first fit.” Tunde-Anjous stressed that his team believes that by collaborating with REACH Technologies, his company can reach out to many Nigerians who are on their journey to financial freedom and hold their hands in order to achieve their aim. Mansard Insurance rebrands to AXA Mansard Insurance Plc AXA Mansard wins insurance coy of the year Uber drivers get accident insurance cover