Superintendent Garba Talawai, a Divisional Police Officer in charge of Mashi, Katsina State and his girl friend, Sadiya Danbaba who were fingered in the killing of a maid, Rabi Abdullahi are yet to be charged to court seven months after the incident. Daily Trust on Saturday’s findings indicate that the suspects were still being kept in police custody without being prosecuted thus sparking concerns from family members and other stakeholders in the state who want justice done in the matter. Superintendent Talawai was the DPO of Mashi when a maid, Rabi, who was working for his girlfriend, Sadiya, died under controversial circumstances. The DPO allegedly impregnated the maid and in the course of trying to carry out an abortion, she died and the officer dumped her remains in a bush to conceal his acts. On June 20, 2019, the Katsina State Police Command said it arrested the DPO and his girlfriend, Sadiyya, over the death of the 16-year-old housemaid. The command said in a statement by its Public Relations Officer, Gambo Isah, said, “A councillor in Mashi Local Government, Abubakar Haruna, reported to the DPO Garba Talawai that a corpse was seen at a bush path in Mashi. “The DPO and his team went to the place and evacuated the corpse which was deposited at Mashi Primary Healthcare Centre. “Later, the corpse was identified as that of Rabi Abdullahi, 16, a housemaid to one Sadiyya Alhaji Danyaya, a girlfriend of the DPO (Talawai). “Some health personnel on duty also identified the corpse as having been brought the previous day to the health facility by the DPO and another policeman where it was confirmed dead in Toyota Carina II, red in colour, identified as the car of the DPO,” he said. He said that investigations indicated that the said Sadiyya reported to the DPO that the teenage girl went missing for about two days after she rebuked her for carrying unwanted pregnancy and sleeping outside the house. “Preliminary investigations indicted the DPO for concealment of facts on the possible cause of death of the deceased,” he said. The PPRO, a superintendent of police, said that the commissioner of police has already directed for a thorough, meticulous and comprehensive investigation on the matter. He further said that both the DPO and his girlfriend were helping detectives to unravel the circumstances surrounding the death of the deceased. He said that another DPO has already been posted to the area as his replacement. “The commissioner of police, Sanusi Buba, assures the parents of the deceased and the public that the command will not leave any stone unturned until justice is done in the matter,” he said. Meanwhile, family members of the deceased maid have raised the alarm over continuous detention of the DPO and his girlfriend without being charged to court. They also expressed worries that their son, Habibu Umar, who was following up the matter was arrested and had been held in detention as an accomplice. Speaking on the incident, Rabi’s grandmother, Salamatu Lami Umar said she began to sense something was wrong when Sadiya came to her house asking for the whereabouts of the late Rabi. “This was a girl ( Sadiya) that I sent words to, to inform and allow the late Rabi to come visit her sick mother but failed to allow her come only to come on that fateful day asking for her whereabouts, telling us that she can’t find her. “A day after, words began to go round that Rabi was found dead and that we should come and retrieve her body. “My husband, Rabi’s foster father, Mallam Umar, went with others, including Habibu (our son) to retrieve it. Later they told us that top police officers from Katsina have ordered for the corpse to be moved to Katsina. That was how Habibu accompanied it there only to be held behind bars as an accomplice” “We are poor and know we can’t get justice over the murder of Rabi here on earth but please, release Habibu to us; we can’t continue to suffer over what was done to us” she said crying profusely. Corroborating, Rabi’s foster father, Umar in whose house the funeral of the late Rabi was held said, “ the emotional and psychological trauma the family is going through is enormous”. He said, “Rabi’s body was severely mutilated and half burnt before it was brought to us; we did her funeral here and buried her like we did her mother who died naturally though”. “As I’m talking to you, Habibu’s (the one in detention) family-a wife and six children-are at the mercies of people. We are poor also; they live on alms and do petty things like sieving habiscus leaves to earn a living. Their source of livelihood is held for no reason,” he said He said the family was helpless over the matter and called on the Inspector General of Police as well as the National Human Rights Commission  to ensure justice was done in the matter. “There is nothing we can do but we leave everything to God who will judge for us. We have resorted to prayers as our only means and weapon in this matter, he said. Daily Trust Saturday learnt that Rabi moved to Mashi town from Gora village to live with her grandmother’s mother, an elderly woman named Yahanasu to help with her upkeep. It was while she was there that she met Sadiya and began to work for her doing menial house jobs. Yahanasu told our reporter that Sadiya used to send Rabi to the DPO to take food and collect monies from him, saying that, “She was such a loving daughter whom I enjoyed staying with for long a time. She really did take very good care of me” “I didn’t know what was going on between them; her father is from Niger Republic and her corpse was brought here first before taken away. I have never been invited by police and heard nothing till now”, she said Also, Sadiya, Abubakar Danyaya’s cousin said the police have failed to charge her to any court neither have they told the family what her offences were. When contacted, the spokesman of Katsina Police Command, Gambo Isah said the matter was still under investigation but declined further comments when pressed further. Daily Trust Saturday sources within the command confided in our reporter that  the embattled DPO has been absolved of the murder but was only being held over unprofessional misconduct. However, it could not be independently ascertained if the DPO will still be charged to court or not. The Commissioner of police, Katsina State Command, Sanusi Buba, had in a statement released during the incidence assured the parents of the deceased and people of the state that the command will not leave any stone unturned until justice was done in the matter. DPO nabbed over murder of girlfriend's maid in Katsina DPO, girlfriend arrested over death of housemaid in Katsina State DPO, girlfriend arrested over death of housemaid in Katsina State