The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) says Nigerians should hold the Buhari Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) responsible for the negative impacts of the proposed travel sanctions imposed on the country by the United States. The PDP in a statement described the sanction as yet another huge misfortune allegedly brought by the Buhari Presidency and the APC which it claimed have continued to wreck the nation with its “compromised handling” of security issues, in addition to escalated bloodletting and human rights violation. The party lamented that the travel ban would have grave consequences on economic, educational and healthcare opportunities; hurt family and social ties as well as further put pressure on the nation’s overall national economy. The PDP said the APC administration has failed to rejig its security high command despite the calls by Nigerians, in the face of worsening security challenges and mass killings in the country. The party however called on the United States to ensure that the ban does not hurt innocent Nigerians who are also bearing the brunt of the alleged poor handling of security in the country under the APC administration. “More depressing is that the APC and the Buhari Presidency have been reversing diplomatic gains achieved by previous administrations while gradually pitching our nation against other countries of the world with its poor record on security, corruption and human right issues. “Our party is worried that our nation that, have become a global destination and investment hub under the PDP, is now being pushed back to a pariah status under the incompetent and divisive APC, as reports from other members of the international community, including credible international organizations, have continued to raise concerns on security and human right issues under the Buhari administration. “It is also worrisome that the APC-led administration had failed to take a decisive step to apprehend and prosecute perpetrators of acts of terrorism including the mass killings in Benue, Nasarawa, Bauchi, Taraba, Kogi, Adamawa, Borno, Yobe, Zamfara, Kaduna, Ekiti, Kogi and other parts of the country under the current administration. “The PDP restates that such failures by the APC had continued to bolster insurgents, bandits and kidnappers to continue to launch deadly attacks on Nigerians. “Moreover, the APC have failed to account for hoodlums and political mercenaries it imported from neighboring countries to assist in unleashing violence on Nigerians during the heavily rigged 2019 general elections,” the party said. Executive Order 6: Buhari slams travel ban on 50 Nigerians PDP threatens to pull out of peace pact Probe 'illegality' in presidential villa, PDP asks National Assembly