A gun duel between combined team of vigilante and Police against bandits at Gurbi village in Kankara LGA has resulted to the death of 21 persons. The dead persons include 17 members of the bandits and four members of the locality that have already been identified. Locals disclosed that the bandits stormed the town in the early hours of Thursday shooting sporadically but fierce resistance from the community led to a shootout, which resulted to reinforcement by security operatives. Confirming the incidence, spokesman of the State Police Command, SP Gambo Isah said “At about 03:00hrs, a distress call was received that bandits in their numbers armed with AK 47 rifles stormed Gurbi village, Kankara LGA of Katsina state where they killed four persons and rustled large number of domestic animals” He said the attack was countered with fierce resistance by the local vigilante groups who later called for support and assistance from the Police. “The Commissioner of Police, Sanusi Buba directed DPO Kankara Division to lead Operation Puff Adder in collaboration with Vigilante groups to the scene. The bandits were engaged in a shootout along with some vigilante members. “The team succeeded and killed seventeen (17) suspected bandits and recovered eighty cows (80), one hundred and eight sheep and a donkey from the hoodlums earlier carted away from the village and other neighbouring villages” he said. He said during the encounter, the bandits killed one Alh Sanusi, Akilu Isuhu, Nana Husaini, and Muntari Sama’ila of Kankara LGA in the State, while three other persons sustained injuries. “Some of the bandits managed to escape with gunshot wounds. Operatives are combing the nearby bushes for arrest of the fleeing bandits and recovery of their operational weapons while Investigation is ongoing” he further said. 21 killed as Police,vigilante clash with bandits in Katsina Many feared dead as bandits, vigilantes clash in Katsina community Bandits shoot once-bubbling Kankara Market in its heart