The Managing Director, Chapel Hill Denham, an independent investment banking, securities trading and investment management firm, Mr. Bolaji Balogun, has said that current efforts to position the nation’s economy on the path of sustainable growth will depend largely on the capacity of the Organised Private Sector (OPS). Balogun, who was the chairman of the 2020 Company Secretaries and Registrars’ Forum organised by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria ICSAN, in Lagos urged company secretaries commonly referred to as custodians of corporate governance, particularly in the private sector, to entrench corporate governance in their organisations to bring about the expected development of the nation. The theme of the forum was “Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance 2018: The Role of Company Secretaries and Capital Market Stakeholders”. According to the investment analyst, conglomerates such as Dangote Cement, Lafarge Cement, MTN and others which are private companies can fix the huge infrastructure gap in the country because they have the capacity and equipment to do it, reiterating that the private is the answer to the development of Nigeria. Speaking on the theme, the Executive Director, Regulation, the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Tinuade Awe, said: “Prior to the launch of the Code, there were a number of sector-specific codes of corporate governance in certain sectors of the economy. These earlier codes were limited to their specific industries and could not be applied across other sectors of the economy. “Thus, the NCCG 2018 was conceived to institutionalise high corporate governance best practices in Nigerian companies notwithstanding the sector in which they operate. In essence, the Code is to serve as the benchmark for corporate governance for companies across every industry within Nigeria. “Thus, the Code has a significantly wider reach than the sectoral codes. It applies to all public companies (listed and unlisted), all private companies that are holding companies of listed companies, or other regulated entities, all privatised companies, and all regulated private companies that file returns with any regulator other than the Federal Inland Revenue Service and the Corporate Affairs Commission”, she added. In his welcome address, ICSAN President and Chairman of Council, Bode Ayeku, said, “We are all familiar with the functions of the Company Secretaries and Registrars and the expectations of the shareholders. Each company secretary has the key responsibility of providing a central source of guidance and advice to the Board and company matters of ethics, conflict of interest and good corporate governance. “Likewise, the stakeholders in the capital markets operate at the heart of our free market system and the extent of their knowledge will determine the level of development of the capital market”, Ayeku added. Osinbajo unveils Nigerian code of corporate governance Lack of corporate governance, bane of business dev’t – Experts say Telcos get new code of corporate governance