Ahead of the 2021 governorship election in Anambra State, some politicians have started indicating interest. Already, the contestants have started intense lobbying for the exalted seat in Awka. Daily Trust Saturday takes a look at the top contenders and their chances of winning. Prof Chukwuma Soludo Soludo does not need any introduction in the political scene of Anambra State. His name rings bell as a former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) who spearheaded a revolution in Nigeria’s banking sector. During his tenure in the CBN, Nigerian banks attained global prominence while the country’s financial market and institutions got better. The former CBN governor is not new to the governorship contest, having participated in the 2010 election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He changed the political discourse with his African-Dubai- Taiwan blueprint. By every permutation he is favoured to win the ticket of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in the coming election.  However, he is perceived to be arrogant, brash, proud, as well as lacking touch with common men. He is seen to be too elitist. Furthermore, the controversy surrounding the construction of a hospital in honour of his late mother could also work against him. Many political pundits believe that for him to make an appreciable impact in the forthcoming election, he has to change the narrative against his personality. However, he remains an aspirant to beat.  Dr Godwin Maduka He is one of the most accomplished professionals among Anambra people in the Diaspora.  The Harvard-trained medical doctor is popularly known for his compassion for the poor, as well as discipline and focus. He is also known for the infrastructural development and human capacity building he singlehandedly initiated in his hometown, Umuchukwu. Among the contestants, he is perceived as one without ‘political baggage.’ Some people also believe that Anambra needs a break from the old order and Maduka is the best candidate for that. He is at home with both the common man and the high and mighty. It is believed that given an opportunity, he would replicate the ‘Umuchukwu magic’ at the state level and properly use his international connection to develop Anambra.  Uche Ekwunife She is a high flyer in the politics of Anambra State. In a male-dominated world she is an inspiration to women. Her victory at the Anambra Central senatorial election against a well known and formidable Chief Victor Umeh attests to her popularity and political calculation. While in the House of Representatives, she was outspoken and known to have sponsored bills to attract development to her constituency. It is widely believed that the next governor of the state should come from the southern senatorial district. Mrs Ekwunife is from Anambra south by birth and central by marriage. She currently represents Anambra central in the Senate. Allowing her to claim both zones for political advantage may defeat the idea of zoning; hence, analysts argue that Ekwunife should wait for the turn of Anambra central, which she has already identified.  Ifeanyi Ubah Ubah currently represents Anambra South in the Senate. He is known for philanthropic gestures and human empowerment schemes. He lost the 2013 governorship election to the current governor. Since then, he has not hidden his desire to rule the state. As a successful businessman and politician, he has built an influence  in and outside the state.