The Ekiti State Security Network, simply known as the Amotekun Corps, has commenced the process of recruiting personnel for its security responsibilities in the state. The Amotekun Corps Commander retired brigadier-general, Joe Komolafe, has consequently called on qualified indigenes of the state between the ages of 18 and 60, with the minimum qualification of the Primary School Leaving Certificate, to apply online. Komolafe told journalists on Wednesday in Ado-Ekiti that each applicant would be required to collect a letter from his/her traditional ruler affirming genuine citizenship of the community and vouching for his/her character, “as people of questionable behaviour would not be employed to be part of the Corps.” Calling on politicians to steer clear of the recruitment process, the Commander assured prospective applicants that the process would be devoid of politics and any form of inducement, adding that only the best and most suitable applicants would be enlisted for the security network. He pointed out that he got the mandate of the governor to supervise the network on account of his proven track records and integrity. “We call on our people who are interested in being part of Amotekun to go online at www.amotekun.ekitistate.gov.ng and apply. The instructions are there. I declare here that everyone that will work in this Corps will be someone who has not involved himself or herself in any form of crime or unworthy act. “Our traditional rulers will play a key role in this regard as these applicants will need attestation letters from them to confirm they are from the stated community and have never been involved in any form of criminality. “The governor has told me he will give me a free hand to do this very important job and achieve the desired results of securing Ekiti. I won’t allow any politician to compromise the standard set for the security outfit and I can assure you that we will not allow politics to derail us,” he said. Komolafe explained that the Amotekun Corps was a child of necessity to checkmate insecurity ravaging the Southwest states and assured all residents that the body would be above board in securing the state. He appealed to everyone in the state to support the security outfit in their respective communities with accurate and timely information, noting, “this is our own security operation and it must not fail.” Amotekun: Inside South-West security outfit S/West houses of assembly pass Amotekun Bill Fayemi signs Amotekun Bill