The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised the sum of N273 million from the sale of expression of interest and nomination forms for Edo and Ondo states governorship elections. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had announced September 19 and October 10, 2020, for the Edo and Ondo elections respectively. The PDP pegged its expression of interest and nomination forms at N21 million per aspirant. Our correspondent gathered from the Office of the PDP National Organising Secretary, retired Col. Austin Akobundu, yesterday, that the party realised a total of N84 million from four aspirants in Edo State and N189 million from nine aspirants in Ondo State. The four aspirants who obtained their forms in Edo are; Governor Godwin Obaseki, Kenneth Imansuangbon, Omoregie-Ogbeide and Gideon Ikhine. Those for Ondo are; the deputy governor of the state, Hon. Agboola Ajayi, Barr. Eyitayo Jegede, Dr Eddy Olafeso, Barr. Sola Ebiseni, Senator Boluwaji Kunlere, Mr Banji Ben Okunomo, Otunba Bamidele Akingboye and Chief Bode Ayorinde. The party has already conducted its primary poll for the Edo election where Governor Obaseki emerged the candidate of the party. It will conduct its primary poll in Akure, the Ondo State capital, on July 22 where delegates would elect its candidate for the October election.  PDP heads to S/Court over Kogi Meanwhile, the party has said it would challenge the judgment of the Court of Appeal which upheld the election of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State at the Supreme Court. The party and its candidate, Engr. Musa Wada, had gone to court to challenge the outcome of the November 16, 2019 governorship election in the state, where INEC announced Bello as winner of the poll. But the Court of Appeal in Abuja, on Saturday, dismissed four appeals brought against the re-election of Yahaya Bello and affirmed him the governor of the state. PDP, in a statement Sunday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, however insisted that its candidate, Wada, won the election and expressed optimism that “justice” would be served at the apex court. Also, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP has set up a caretaker committee in Nasarawa State. This was contained in a letter dated July 2, 2020, addressed to chairman of the Zonal Working Committee (ZWC), Hon. Theophilus Dakas Shan, which was made available to newsmen in Lafia. It directed him to take charge and oversee the activities of the state chapter of the party until further notice. Ondo gov’ship forms: APC generates N258m Ondo: PDP extends sale of forms to accommodate dep gov APC, PDP rake in N3.8 bn from sale of presidential, guber forms