As flights resume July 8, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has released new procedural guidelines for air travellers and other airport users. The new Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) is aimed at protecting all stakeholders and preventing further spread of the Covid-19 virus, a statement by Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, the General Manager, Corporate Affairs said. The statement said departing passengers must comply with the following guidelines: “All passengers must arrive the airport properly kitted with their face mask on. “They must also ensure a minimum of one point five meters (1.5m) physical distancing.” Also “aviation Medical/Port Health personnel would screen each passenger and ensure the use of face masks those travelling with pets must get necessary clearance from Nigerian Agricultural Quarantine Services”. All passengers’ luggage would be disinfected before entry into the departure halls. Passengers are required to wash their hands as often as possible, noting that hand sanitizer would be provided for passengers before entrance, at the waiting halls/lounges and pre boarding gates and all footwear would be disinfected/sanitized by foot mats placed at all entrances to the terminal building, amongst others, the statement said. For arriving passengers, FAAN said upon “disembarkation from the aircraft, passengers would observe physical distancing as they board the co-buses (hand sanitizer would be provided in the buses), physical distancing protocols must be observed at the baggage claim area, where hand sanitizer is also provided.” It said “disinfected trolleys would be made available for passengers, adding that all COVID-19 protocols must be observed while undergoing customs check” Passengers would exit the halls and head straight to the car park for pick-up, it stated. FAAN also said “if you must speak to anyone around, please speak to a properly tagged Aviation Security (AVSEC) officer, physical distancing would be maintained while waiting to be screened by personnel of Port Health Services, amongst others.” Domestic flight operation is expected to resume on July 8, 2020, after over three months of shutdown. Ministry of Aviation said the flights would commence with the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja, the Murtala Muhammed Airport in Lagos and the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano.  FAAN releases guidelines for passengers Nigeria: Government to space flights ahead airport reopening Arik Air resumes domestic flights July 8