The Victims Support Fund (VSF) Task Force on COVID-19, on Tuesday, handed over medical consumables and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) at the Abuja Central Medical Stores (ACMS). The task force, which was inaugurated in March by the Chairman of the VSF, Gen TY Danjuma RTD, was assigned to provide palliative measures to vulnerable Nigerians, including institutions and agencies that support the national efforts to fight COVID 19 pandemic. The medical consumables and devices handed over included medicine for primary and secondary medical care. The primary medicines are made up of pain medication/analgesics, multivitamins, anti-malarials, and multivitamins. The secondary care medications include anti-diabetes, and anti-hypertension drugs. The medical devices are the electronic sphygmomanometer as well as the glucometer and active test strips. The PPE’s consist of surgical face masks, latex gloves, hand sanitizers, face masks antiseptic, bleach, soap and toilet cleaner. Prof. Sunday Ochoche, the Executive Director of VSF said the organisation remained committed to support national efforts in the global fight against the coronavirus pandemic and deploy sensitisation campaigns to advise the populace on the need to adhere to COVID-19 protocols in order to reduce the spread of the virus. “VSF continues to work to provide succor to victims of insurgency and armed conflict in Nigeria, especially in the areas of livelihood and recovery, education and protection, infrastructural development as well as research and peacebuilding,” he added. The items were delivered to the FCTA officials on behalf of VSF by Mr Alkasim Abdulkadir, a member of its COVID-19 task force. While receiving the items, a acting director of Administration and finance in the FCTA, Malan Noel Haruna, thanked VSF for the gesture. He promised that the medical materials would be distributed across all medical facilities in the FCT. “We can assure you that the materials will be used judiciously to fight the COVID-19 pandemic in the FCT,” he said. VSF forms COVID-19 task force to provide N1bn worth palliatives to vulnerable Nigerians COVID-19: VSF urges Borno govt to create more handwash stations Covid 19 :  VSF to donate food items to 50,000 households in Borno