The Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) will publish its findings on five air mishaps today. This will bring the total number of final reports of air accidents to a record 27 in four years. The Commissioner and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of AIB, Mr. Akin Olateru, disclosed this yesterday when the Senate Committee on ICT and cybercrime visited the agency to ascertain its level of ICT infrastructure and cyber security architecture. Mr. Olateru said since he assumed office, the AIB “has released 27 final accident reports and issued 97 safety recommendations to the public since 2017”, which represents 64 per cent of releases during this administration. He said, “We will be releasing an additional five reports tomorrow (today), which will bring the total number of final reports released to 32 and 106 safety recommendations during this current administration.” He further said the releases would make a total of 50 final reports and 187 safety recommendations since the inception of AIB, adding that the bureau now had capability of releasing air accident report in 18 months from the date of the accident. The commissioner hinted that apart from partnerships with local and international institutions, AIB had also completed plans to begin training, in partnership with the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria, air accident investigators in West Africa in its Abuja facility. According to him, in recent times, the bureau was collaborating with the United Kingdom, Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB UK), Singapore Transportation, Safety Investigative Board (TSIB), Canada’s Transportation Safety Board (TSB Canada), the University of Ilorin, among others. Mr. Olateru, therefore, appealed to the senate for improved funding and quick passage of the AIB Amendment Bill to enhance its operations. Earlier, the Chairman, Senate Committee on ICT and Cybercrime, Sen. Yakubu Oseni, noted that fresh experiences arising from the COVID-19 pandemic had exposed rampaging threats to the digital ecosystem and the need for accelerated development in ICT. Late Suntai not qualified to fly plane – AIB AIB concludes investigations on Suntai’s plane crash, five others AIB set to release report on Suntai's plane crash, six others