Veritas Kapital Assurance Plc has recovered from a loss, posting a Profit Before Tax (PBT) of N253 million in the 2019 financial year as against a loss of N50 million in 2018. This is even as it recorded a decline in management expenses by four per cent to N1.462bn in 2019 from N1.530bn with a two per cent increase in net assets hitting N7.947bn as against N7.781bn in 2018. The financial results were disclosed in the risk underwriters’ 2019 Annual Report and Accounts, presented to shareholders at the company’s 43rd Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Abuja. During the meeting held in line with the COVID-19 rules and guidelines, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Veritas Kapital, Thomas Etuh, while applauding the improvements, said the focus of the company for 2020 was “simply innovative”. Etuh said, “Innovation is how we will win in the highly competitive environment that we operate in that is also further challenged by the effects of the novel COVID-19 pandemic. This will include innovation in processes, enhancement of our product portfolio, development of mutually beneficial partnerships and collaborations, while ensuring simplicity in all areas of your company’s operations. We are confident that the future remains ours to shape.” In his remarks, the MD of Veritas Kapital, Kenneth Egbaran, said, “I think it is a great improvement when compared to where we are coming from in the year 2018 when we declared a loss position, and in 2019 we lifted up to a profit position. So, I believe that it is an encouraging development. “In all indices, I believe that the company did well and that is what we are trying to build on to ensure that we are not going to drop the ball even in this situation where everybody believe that not really much can happen because of the COVID-19 pandemic. But we are poised to prove sceptics wrong, that is our area of focus to build on what we have achieved.” Shareholders of the company were elated that the company returned to the path of profit and commended the board and management for prudent management of staff and resources.  Veritas Kapital targets N12bn capital base UnityKapital cuts operating cost by 22% in 2016 Veritas Kapital Assurance appoints new MD/CEO