Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State, Eyitayo Jegede, yesterday said he will defeat Governor Rotimi Akeredolu in the forthcoming election. Jegede, who defeated six other contenders to pick the ticket of the PDP, would be slugging it out with Akeredolu for the second time. In 2016, he was defeated at the governorship election by Akeredolu of the APC. He said his victory at the primary election was a quit notice to the ruling APC in the state. Jegede said, “The end of ruling APC has come in Ondo state.” Jegede was declared winner of the primary election by Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, the chairman poll committee at the early hours of yesterday. To pick the ticket, Jegede polled 888 votes, Agboola Ajayi, the incumbent deputy governor who recently defected to PDP (657), Eddy Olamafo (175), Banji Okunomo (90), Bode Ayorinde (95), Boluwaji Kunlere (33) and Godday Erewa (14). Dedicating his victory to all party members and other co-contestants, he urged them to ensure they work together for the victory of the party. “We must ensure that we come together as one family, and harmonise ideas, resources and come together in love to rescue Ondo State from its hiatus,” he said. You are wallowing in self-deceit – Ondo gov Responding to the quit notice, Akeredolu said Jegede was wallowing in self-deceit if he believed he could defeat him. Speaking through his media aide, Ojo Oyewamide, he said it was God that crowns a king. He also said his performance in the last four years would get him a second term. Accepting defeat, Ajayi who came second in the primary election, congratulated Jegede, and wished him the best. Through his media adviser, Allen Sowore, Ajayi said “the people have spoken and we accept the outcome in good faith, knowing fully well that it was a race against different forces.” A foundation stalwart of the PDP, Alhaji Aminu Yakudima, said the defeat of Ajayi was a good omen for democracy. However, Yakudima said that PDP members who had served the party faithfully from its very foundation were happy about the development and working hard for it to reclaim power in the state. Ondo: Akeredolu set to pick APC ticket as 3 aspirants step down Suspense, last minute thrills as Ondo picks new governor Ondo governorship: 2,111 delegates elect PDP candidate today