“It is celebration for us in Gezawa. I am glad that my husband no longer travels to Kano on a daily basis to do menial jobs to complement his little farming activities, especially during the dry season. “He now stays at home and does better work as a security man in the newly established agro-commodity market,’’ Harira Gezawa, 30, a housewife in Gezawa town, where a multi-million naira ultra-modern agro-commodity market is situated, said. Daily Trust Saturday learnt that even before the commencement of activities in the market, the host community and others had begun to experience economic transformation. Gezawa Local Government Area is located a few kilometers away from the ancient city of Kano. It has an area of 340 km² and a population of 282,069 as at the 2006 census. For ages, communities in the local government area are known as agrarian. Overtime, the local government has been a very busy hub for rice milling; hence it has witnessed a growing population, especially within the council’s headquarters. Also, the ultra-modern agro-commodity market has added to the development of the area as it has brought various opportunities for residents. A recent visit to the area showed that a road network of about 8 kilometers was constructed to link Gezawa with Gabasawa. There were other feeder roads that connect to other local governments. These roads cut across villages like Larabawan Kogal, Uran, Ketawa and Laraba, which are known for agricultural activities. Before now, farmers in Gezawa had limited access to affordable inputs and road network, technology, infrastructure and institutions; hence farmers produced at a loss. It was reliably gathered that operators of the market had entered into an agreement with a private hospital in the area to carter for the people at 50 per cent discount. A mini football field has also been put in place for recreational activities for the communities. Again, most of the labourers used in the construction of the market are sourced within the communities. Malam Shehu Garba Uran, a farmer and resident of Uran village, said they could now convey their produce more comfortably as an access road from their village to Gezawa town was constructed because of the ultra-modern commodity market. This, he said, had improved their revenue as they now easily transport their produce to markets for sale. “You can attest to the fact that you did not experience difficulty in coming here. “This was not the case few years ago. We had to use donkeys and carts to transport our agricultural produce to Gezawa market, which serves as our first business point. “But now, everyone is finding it very easy to go to the market at any time without stress, courtesy of the access road. This is the same in a lot of villages linked with the access road,’’ Malam Shehu said. Mr Bimfa Binchang, the market project consultant said, “When completed, the ultra-modern market will provide over 2,000 direct and more than 5,000 indirect jobs to the mostly the host community. A resident of Ketawa village, Malam Kabiru Gezawa, said the agro-commodity market had brought a lot of economic development in the area, even before it commenced operation. He said the land obtained for farming activities was reasonably paid for, adding that the memorandum of understanding between the firm and a private clinic has been easing a lot of health issues in the community. Inside the first Nigerian ultra-modern agro-commodity market Gezawa int’l commodity market targets 15,000 youths for jobs — Consultant Kano gets modern agro-commodity exchange market