The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) says it has no interest “in rolling in the mud” with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and engaging them in “senseless and drunken tirade.” The APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, said this on Friday while reacting to PDP’s allegation that the ruling party was planning to use foreign “election mercenaries” to rig the forthcoming September 19, 2020 governorship election in Edo state. The PDP, in a statement, by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, also alleged that the trio of Governors Abdullahi Ganduje, Hope Uzodinma of Imo state and Yahaya Bello of Kogi State were mandated by the APC to “derail” the Edo election. Nabena, who said every valid vote must count September 19, stated that the APC is a party that “fiercely advocates, practices and defends the principle of one person, one vote”. He said the PDP had been intimidated by the quality, depth and political sagacity of the APC National Campaign Council deployed by the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee to organise a formidable campaign structure to ensure success of the APC and its candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu during the election. He urged the PDP to concentrate on their deadbeat and empty campaign instead of the comic it had turned itself to, stressing that “Edo is proudly an APC state.” “Ahead of the 19th September, 2020 Edo State Governorship election, the PDP is up to their usual, diversionary, baseless and theatrical allegations. “Edo state is not dubbed the Heartbeat of the Nation for nothing. The Edo electorate is sensible, sophisticated and progressive. The focus of the APC is to display to the Edo electorate our pro-people credentials, infrastructure/development track record, social investments, wealth creation initiatives among others which is being replicated across APC states,” he said in a statement on Friday. PDP: APC plotting to rig Edo 2020 poll APC plotting use of foreign mercenaries to rig Edo poll - PDP Ondo gov’ship forms: APC generates N258m