Samsung Heavy Industries (SHI) is developing innovative methods to facilitate smart shipping by undertaking thorough research across their multiple research centres in Geoje, Daeduk and Pangyo in Korea. According to a statement issued by the company, the aim is not only to transform Samsung’s shipyard at Geoje into a smart shipyard but also transfer the wealth of technological know-how from Korea to Nigeria, cultivating smart shipping in Nigeria as well. During the construction of the Egina, the world’s largest FPSO, Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria (SHIN) was already able to apply many innovations from their Korean operations. This helped shorten the Egina project integration process to seven months, the fastest in Africa amongst comparable projects. Now, rigorous research is underway at both their onshore and offshore R&D centres across Korea. The ICT Convergence Centre in Geoje, for instance, is working on integrating an innovative ICT and production technology in up to six different categories. The technologies to be implemented will facilitate more efficient ways of working, lowering the cost of operations, increasing safety, and modernising the shipbuilding industry in Nigeria. Samsung Heavy Industries has identified Nigeria and the West Africa region as an emerging market with an abundance of opportunity. Managing Director of  Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria, Mr. Jejin Jeon, said:  “Our investment in West Africa is a long term one, rooted in helping develop local human capacity by leveraging our fabrication and integration yard to the benefit of the entire West African maritime industry. “At Samsung, we believe in having big dreams and visions for the future and following them with passion. Given our present as well the near future is digital, it is high time the shipbuilding industry too started digitizing its ways of working. “We are looking forward to introducing these innovations to truly transform our ways of working in a complex industry such as shipbuilding. “Finally, we remain committed to ensuring that our relationship with the Nigerian community remains strong by continuing to train local staff in technical vocational skills,” Jeon added. Samsung’s nomination puts Nigeria on global map Samsung Heavy ordered to halt plant operations Samsung trains 20 Nigerian youths on welding