The Ogun State House of Assembly said it had observed that adherence to coronavirus safety measures, especially the use of face mask, had reduced drastically among residents of the state. This, according to the legislature, was worrisome in view of the rising number of cases in the state and other parts of the country. Consequently, the legislature yesterday mandated the state government to henceforth enforce the use of face mask and adherence to physical distancing. A member representing the Abeokuta South II Constituency, Ademuyiwa Adeyemi, who addressed his colleagues under Personal Explanation, during plenary yesterday, expressed concern over decline in the adherence to coronavirus safety measures. Adeyemi advocated the enactment of a law to punish defaulters for not using face masks with a view to curbing the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the state. The lawmaker said that the law was important in view of the increase in community transmission of the disease and non-compliance with government’s directives. He said that the government had since directed that residents of the state must always wear face masks and observe social distancing. The legislator noted it had become a common sight of people disregarding government’s directives on wearing the face mask and observing social distancing, warning it portended danger. Adeyemi appealed to his colleagues to conduct public enlightenment in their various constituencies on the importance of wearing face masks, saying it would reduce the spread of the pandemic. The Speaker, Olakunle Oluomo, appealed to the state government to urgently embark on the enforcement of the use of face mask in the state to curb the spread of the disease. He called on the state’s executive council to liaise with the necessary government agencies and transport unions to ensure that the spread of the virus was curtailed. Oluomo also advised transport unions in the state not to allow passengers without face masks to board commercial vehicles.