The new Commissioner of Police in Ogun State, Edward Ajogun, assumed duties yesterday with a warning to officers to refrain from any act of misconduct. Ajogun said at the ceremony of the hand-over from his predecessor, Commissioner of Police Kenneth Ebrimson, held at the police headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta, that any act of misconduct would be viewed seriously. He also warned policemen in the state on misuse of firearms and extra-judicial killings, saying the police must treat residents of the state with utmost respect and dignity. Ajogun further instructed men and officers under him to be prepared to respect the basic tenets, which included the rule of law and fundamental rights of the citizens. He said, “Citizens can ventilate their grievances through protest and demonstrations in peace and in an orderly manner. The Command will, however, be decisive in handling violent conducts, particularly where lives and properties are threatened. “Let me quickly remind all policemen that they are public servants and that every member of the public deserves respect, and that any act of misconduct will be viewed seriously. I appeal to the general public to reciprocate by giving back to policemen deserving respect and cooperation. “The Ogun State Police Command under my watch will try as much as possible to counsel, warn and appeal to the persons involved to maintain peace, disperse peacefully and seek alternative dispute resolutions rather than engage in violence and disruptions. The use of weapons will only be justified by circumstances and in accordance with laws, and only when it is absolutely necessary.” Ebrimson thanked the Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, for his logistics support towards providing patrol vehicles, power motorcycles and communication gadgets. He charged the officers and men of the Command to extend the same support they gave him to the new Police Commissioner.  Ajogun replaces Ebrimson as Ogun CP Extra-judicial killings: Police to stop firearms use for routine patrols IGP says extra-judicial killings by policemen unacceptable