The Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat of the Federal Capital Territory Administration has intensified sensitization campaign in livestock markets across the FCT to ensure COVID-19 safety protocols adherence. A statement by the Deputy Director Information at the secretariat, Alhaji Zakari Aliyu, said the Acting Secretary, Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat, Mr Ibe Prospect Chukwuemeka, who led a team of officials to Karu Abattoir on the sensitisation said it was aimed at minimising the risks of transmission of the COVID-19. He told the butchers and members of the public that the FCTA was leaving no stone unturned in the fight against COVID-19, adding that the guidelines issued by the secretariat on safety protocols in livestock markets and abattoirs were aimed at safeguarding the lives of the residents. He stressed that the secretariat had directed its animal health officials to ensure that all stakeholders complied with the protocols. “As Sallah celebrations approach, people will want to buy livestock and there is need to avoid overcrowding during the hustle and bustle of this period in a bid to meet up with the season’s demand. In the light of this, our animal health officials as well as livestock officers have been fully mobilised to enforce compliance,” he said. Ibe further appealed to residents, especially the butchers, to cooperate with government as the actions were meant to curtail the spread of the virus. Responding on behalf of the chairman of Karu Butchers Association, Mallam Mustapha Catcher thanked the FCTA for its efforts in combating the pandemic, stating that the association had set up a task team to ensure that their members complied with the safety measures.a The Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat of the Federal Capital Territory Administration has intensified sensitization campaign in livestock markets across the FCT to ensure COVID-19 safety protocols adherence. A statement by the Deputy Director Information at the secretariat, Alhaji Zakari Aliyu, said the Acting Secretary, Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat, Mr Ibe Prospect Chukwuemeka, who led a team of officials to Karu Abattoir on the sensitisation said it was aimed at minimising the risks of transmission of the COVID-19. He told the butchers and members of the public that the FCTA was leaving no stone unturned in the fight against COVID-19, adding that the guidelines issued by the secretariat on safety protocols in livestock markets and abattoirs were aimed at safeguarding the lives of the residents. He stressed that the secretariat had directed its animal health officials to ensure that all stakeholders complied with the protocols. “As Sallah celebrations approach, people will want to buy livestock and there is need to avoid overcrowding during the hustle and bustle of this period in a bid to meet up with the season’s demand. In the light of this, our animal health officials as well as livestock officers have been fully mobilised to enforce compliance,” he said. Ibe further appealed to residents, especially the butchers, to cooperate with government as the actions were meant to curtail the spread of the virus. Responding on behalf of the chairman of Karu Butchers Association, Mallam Mustapha Catcher thanked the FCTA for its efforts in combating the pandemic, stating that the association had set up a task team to ensure that their members complied with the safety measures.a