 As the Edo State governorship election draws close, political parties have inaugurated their campaign councils as they make efforts to sell their candidates to the electorate. However, some of the parties, especially the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are exploring the social media and other internet platforms, as well as community and town hall meetings to reach the electorate. While Chief Dan Orbih, a former chairman of the PDP in the state and its national vice chairman is at the forefront, General Cecil Esekhaigbe (rtd) is leading the APC. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), while 14 political parties initially registered for the election, only 12 of them eventually fielded candidates. The parties are the African Action Congress (AAC); African Democratic Congress (ADC); Action Democratic Party (ADP); All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA); Allied People’s Movement (APM); Action People’s Party (APP); Labour Party (LP) and the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). The others are the National Rescue Movement (NRM), Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), Young Progressive Party (YPP) and Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). The candidates of the various parties, according to an INEC list are Obhafuoso Paul (AA); Akhigbe B. Ehiabhi (ADC); L. Ibio Emmanuel (ADP); Osagie Andrew Ize-Iyamu (APC); Lucky Osagie Idehen (APGA); Igbineweka Osamuede (APM), Amos Osalumese Areloegbe (APP). Others are Osifo Uhun-Ekpenma Isaiah (LP); Agolebun Tracy (NNPP); Stevie Nash Ozono (NRM); Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki (PDP); Felix Ikezor Obayangbon (SDP); Jones Osagiobare (YPP) and Akhalamhe Amiemenoghena (ZLP). However, it is believed that among the parties, the major contenders are candidates of the PDP and the APC. Political pundits argue that others do not have structures across the state; hence they will not make any impact during the election. Interestingly, most of them have started endorsing candidates of other parties. Last week, 35 parties (registered and deregistered) under umbrella of the Coalition of Political Parties, collapsed their structures in support of the re-election bid of Governor Obaseki. Chairman of the coalition, Dare Orerun, said they would mobilise their members and supporters to ensure that Governor Obaseki continued his developmental strides. “We have resolved to advise our individual governorship candidates to withdraw and join hands with Governor Obaseki to build on the developmental legacies achieved in his first term in office,’’ Orerun said. In the same vein, the Northern Professionals, Kogi State indigenes and the Professional Drivers Union have pledged support for the candidate of the APC, Pastor Ize-Iyamu.  What are the chances of some of the candidates? Ize-lyamu Pastor Ize-Iyamu is a grassroots politician, whose loyalists spread across the 18 local government areas of the state. He served as chief of staff and later secretary to the state government between 1999 and 2007. He served as the director-general of Adams Oshiomhole’s re-election campaign in 2012, but later fell out with him in 2014 and defected to the PDP, where he picked the governorship ticket but lost. It is believed that he has the strength and followers to slug it out with Governor Obaseki. Analysts believe the greatest strength of Ize-Iyamu are his foot soldiers across the state and his investment in people when he held sway as the secretary to the state government and chief of staff. He is believed to have made many people, who will in turn support him in the election.  Isaiah Osifo Osifo is the candidate of the Labour Party, but he is not very popular across the various local government areas of the state. This is his first time as a governorship candidate of any political party. He is a lecturer in Igbinedion University, Okada. It is believed that he is in the race to test his popularity.  Godwin Obaseki Governor Obaseki was a stockbroker and investment banker before he was elected in 2016 on the platform of the APC. He was the chairman of the economic and strategy team of former Governor Adams Oshiomhole for eight years before he became the gubernatorial candidate of the party. Before he fell apart with his former godfather, Comrade Oshiomhole, he was quick to master the act of politics; hence he was able to stand against him as he struggles to achieve his reelection bid. It is believed that his boldness to stand against his former boss, who also fought against the politics of godfathers in the state, has endeared him to the masses. And that seems to be his strength as it has made him popular.  Stevie Nash Ozono Ozono is the candidate of the National Rescue Movement. In Edo politics, he is not as popular as Ize-Iyamu and Obaseki. This is his first time as a candidate of any political party. He is also among the candidates believed to have joined the race to test their popularity.  Agolebun Tracy Agolebun Tracy is the candidate of the NNPP. She is the only female in the governorship race, but is relatively unknown in the state. She is also believed to be in race to test her popularity. Meanwhile, some residents of the state who spoke with Daily Trust on Sunday on the chances of the governorship candidates said the contest is between the candidates of the PDP and APC. One of the residents, Mr Gideon Albert said, “If you look at other parties in the state, many of them only exist in name. They are only in Benin City and do not have structures across the state. How then will they make impact in the election? Another resident who simply gave his name as Abass said other parties were in the contest for the fun of it. “Many of the parties have even collapsed their structures to support other candidates, even when they have candidates for the election. Many of the parties are not even known to voters,’’ Abass said, adding that many of them are just in the race to test their popularity.   As the Edo State governorship election draws close, political parties have inaugurated their campaign councils as they make efforts to sell their candidates to the electorate. However, some of the parties, especially the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are exploring the social media and other internet platforms, as well as community and town hall meetings to reach the electorate. While Chief Dan Orbih, a former chairman of the PDP in the state and its national vice chairman is at the forefront, General Cecil Esekhaigbe (rtd) is leading the APC. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), while 14 political parties initially registered for the election, only 12 of them eventually fielded candidates. The parties are the African Action Congress (AAC); African Democratic Congress (ADC); Action Democratic Party (ADP); All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA); Allied People’s Movement (APM); Action People’s Party (APP); Labour Party (LP) and the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). The others are the National Rescue Movement (NRM), Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), Young Progressive Party (YPP) and Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). The candidates of the various parties, according to an INEC list are Obhafuoso Paul (AA); Akhigbe B. Ehiabhi (ADC); L. Ibio Emmanuel (ADP); Osagie Andrew Ize-Iyamu (APC); Lucky Osagie Idehen (APGA); Igbineweka Osamuede (APM), Amos Osalumese Areloegbe (APP). Others are Osifo Uhun-Ekpenma Isaiah (LP); Agolebun Tracy (NNPP); Stevie Nash Ozono (NRM); Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki (PDP); Felix Ikezor Obayangbon (SDP); Jones Osagiobare (YPP) and Akhalamhe Amiemenoghena (ZLP). However, it is believed that among the parties, the major contenders are candidates of the PDP and the APC. Political pundits argue that others do not have structures across the state; hence they will not make any impact during the election. Interestingly, most of them have started endorsing candidates of other parties. Last week, 35 parties (registered and deregistered) under umbrella of the Coalition of Political Parties, collapsed their structures in support of the re-election bid of Governor Obaseki. Chairman of the coalition, Dare Orerun, said they would mobilise their members and supporters to ensure that Governor Obaseki continued his developmental strides. “We have resolved to advise our individual governorship candidates to withdraw and join hands with Governor Obaseki to build on the developmental legacies achieved in his first term in office,’’ Orerun said. In the same vein, the Northern Professionals, Kogi State indigenes and the Professional Drivers Union have pledged support for the candidate of the APC, Pastor Ize-Iyamu.  What are the chances of some of the candidates? Ize-lyamu Pastor Ize-Iyamu is a grassroots politician, whose loyalists spread across the 18 local government areas of the state. He served as chief of staff and later secretary to the state government between 1999 and 2007. He served as the director-general of Adams Oshiomhole’s re-election campaign in 2012, but later fell out with him in 2014 and defected to the PDP, where he picked the governorship ticket but lost. It is believed that he has the strength and followers to slug it out with Governor Obaseki. Analysts believe the greatest strength of Ize-Iyamu are his foot soldiers across the state and his investment in people when he held sway as the secretary to the state government and chief of staff. He is believed to have made many people, who will in turn support him in the election.  Isaiah Osifo Osifo is the candidate of the Labour Party, but he is not very popular across the various local government areas of the state. This is his first time as a governorship candidate of any political party. He is a lecturer in Igbinedion University, Okada. It is believed that he is in the race to test his popularity.  Godwin Obaseki Governor Obaseki was a stockbroker and investment banker before he was elected in 2016 on the platform of the APC. He was the chairman of the economic and strategy team of former Governor Adams Oshiomhole for eight years before he became the gubernatorial candidate of the party. Before he fell apart with his former godfather, Comrade Oshiomhole, he was quick to master the act of politics; hence he was able to stand against him as he struggles to achieve his reelection bid. It is believed that his boldness to stand against his former boss, who also fought against the politics of godfathers in the state, has endeared him to the masses. And that seems to be his strength as it has made him popular.  Stevie Nash Ozono Ozono is the candidate of the National Rescue Movement. In Edo politics, he is not as popular as Ize-Iyamu and Obaseki. This is his first time as a candidate of any political party. He is also among the candidates believed to have joined the race to test their popularity.  Agolebun Tracy Agolebun Tracy is the candidate of the NNPP. She is the only female in the governorship race, but is relatively unknown in the state. She is also believed to be in race to test her popularity. Meanwhile, some residents of the state who spoke with Daily Trust on Sunday on the chances of the governorship candidates said the contest is between the candidates of the PDP and APC. One of the residents, Mr Gideon Albert said, “If you look at other parties in the state, many of them only exist in name. They are only in Benin City and do not have structures across the state. How then will they make impact in the election? Another resident who simply gave his name as Abass said other parties were in the contest for the fun of it. “Many of the parties have even collapsed their structures to support other candidates, even when they have candidates for the election. Many of the parties are not even known to voters,’’ Abass said, adding that many of them are just in the race to test their popularity. 