The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Saturday published the final list of candidates for the 2020 Governorship election in Edo State scheduled for September 19. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee (IVEC), Festus Okoye, said that this was in compliance with its Timetable and Schedule of Activities and in accordance with Section 34 of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended). According to him, the commission has  published the final list and also displayed it in the commission’s offices in the state capital; the 18 local government areas of the sate; and also uploaded on the commission’s website. “By Section 35 of the Electoral Act and the Timetable and Schedule of Activities of the Commission, the withdrawal and substitution of candidates for the Edo Governorship election ended on 13th July 2020. “With the publication of the final list of candidates, no political party can withdraw or substitute any of the nominated candidates or tamper with the list and particulars of the candidates in a manner inconsistent with the Constitution and the Electoral Act,” Okoye said. He urged political parties to pay close attention to the timelines stipulated in the timetable and schedule of activities of the commission as well as the provisions of the Constitution and the Electoral Act. The list as published on INEC website showed that Governor Godwin Obaseki is the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP); Osagie Ize-Iyamu, All Progressives Congress (APC); Edemakhiota Osaimiamia, Action Alliance (AA); Reuben Edokpayi, African Democratic Congress (ADC); Emmanuel Obio, African Democratic Party (ADP); and Lucky Idehen, All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Others are Igbineweka Osmimuede, Allied Peoples Movement (APM); Amos Areloegbe, Accord Party (AP); Isaiah Osifu, Labour Party (LP); Jonathan Enobhaysobo, New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP); Stevie Ozono, National Rescue Movement (NRM); Felix Obayangbon, Social Democratic Party (SDP); Jones Osagiobare, Young Progressives Party; and Akhalamhe Amiemenoghena, Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). Daily Trust on Sunday reports that INEC had set July 13 as the deadline for withdrawal and substitution of candidates for the state election. Okoye had earlier said that before the expiration date, only three parties, the Action Alliance (AA), Labour Party (LP) and African Democratic Congress (ADC) substituted their candidates earlier nominated for the poll. INEC publishes final list of candidates for Edo governorship election Ondo 2020: APC, PDP, 15 others adopt indirect primaries JUST IN: INEC fixes dates for Edo, Ondo governorship, other bye-elections