As the federal government disengaged Batch A and B of N-Power beneficiaries to give chance for new applicants, some of the disengaged beneficiaries have shared their experiences and their future plans with Daily Trust. Many of the beneficiaries of the N-power programme spoken with in Kano said that they were stunned by the disengagement as they thought government had plans to retain them as full-time civil servants. But the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Farouq, recently said no fewer than 109,823 beneficiaries of the programme had become business owners. Farouq, in a statement by her Special Assistant on Strategic Communication, Halima Oyelade, said the beneficiaries of Batch A and B of N-Power had established businesses in their communities. Umar Khamis, a Batch B N-Teach beneficiary, told Daily Trust that the programme afforded him the opportunity of becoming self-reliant even before securing another job. “With the monthly allowance of N30,000, I was able to venture into the textile business. “I now sell yards with a capital base of more than N150,000”, Khamis said. He added that he was also able to venture into commercial farming since he first got enrolled in the programme in 2017 and has been able to make an average annual gain of N150,000 since then. Similarly, another batch B beneficiary, who will be disengaged by this month end, Mustapha Ibrahim, said he was able to establish two ‘chemists’ (drug stores) from his monthly savings. Ibrahim, who is an N-Health beneficiary said, “With the little monthly gain also, I have been able to sponsor two of my siblings to higher institutions running different programmes. “I also run a money transfer business with a POS machine, and above all, I was able to finally marry and settle down.” Ibrahim, who said he now has more than N450,000 capital all saved from his monthly savings, thanked the federal government for the initiative, adding that to him, the aim of the programme has succeeded. Fatima Ahmad, a Batch A beneficiary, said the programme gave her a means of sustaining her life and also helped her to support her husband in managing and sponsoring many things in their home. “To me the disengagement won’t be a big threat because I have already established a home-based business and it’s going well I thank God. “I saved some of the stipends for about six months and bought a fridge and started selling pure water and ice block. “The business has given so much; I’ve earned a lot, especially during fasting. “I assist my husband in running the house by paying school fees and buying some small things that are needed on a daily basis in the house. “So I appreciate the N-power programme and the federal government honestly,” Fatima added. Yaseer Lawal Adam, another beneficiary in Kano, who was in Batch A of the scheme, said he started a poultry business from his savings from the scheme. Adam, an N-Health beneficiary, added that he had now diversified his business to supplying and selling of clothing materials and soaps. FG disengages 500,000 N-Power beneficiaries Why we disengaged 500,000 N-Power beneficiaries - FG N-Power: 109,823 beneficiaries now business owners – Minister