The All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are trading blames over a clash between their supporters at the palace of the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II. While the PDP is alleging that the attack was sponsored by the APC and its leaders, the APC claimed that it was masterminded by the PDP and Governor Godwin Obaseki. The supporters, it would be recalled clashed on Saturday. The chairman, Edo PDP campaign council, Chief Dan Orbih, said the attack was a plan by the APC to eliminate the entire leadership of the PDP and its elected governors who were at the event. “The visit of Governor Obaseki, PDP governors, PDP national chairman and members of the national working committee was officially communicated to the palace and the various security agents in accordance with INEC guidelines. “There was no official records stating that APC has any event scheduled either at the palace or anywhere in Benin,” he told journalists on Sunday. Orbih called on security agencies to bring to book perpetrators of the attack. On his part, Patrick Obahiagbon, Vice-Chairman, Media and Publicity Committee, APC National Campaign Council, alleged that it was the governor’s supporters that attacked protesters at the entrance of the palace for expressing their rejection of the governor. He said after the palace’s incident, APC supporters and party members wearing Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu’s caps and T-shirts were physically assaulted on the streets of Benin. “Many of our supporters with gunshot wounds are receiving treatment following the attack,” he said. Obahiagbon alleged that plan was on to arrest former national chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole on trumped-up charges before the governorship election. He called on INEC, the police and other relevant stakeholders to prevail on the governor to allow the rule of law and a level playing field to hold supreme between now and the end of the election. It would be recalled that on Saturday, supporters of APC and PDP clashed at the palace of the Oba of Benin when Governor Obaseki and PDP entourage visited the palace for royal blessing. APC, PDP bicker over clash of supporters at Oba palace APC, PDP supporters clash at Oba’s palace Edo 2020: Many injured as APC, PDP thugs clash at Oba palace