Governor Mail Mala Buni of Yobe State and chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) caretaker committee has said the ongoing consultation and reconciliatory moves of his committee have started yielding the desired result. Inaugurating the 49-member high-level National Campaign Council for the Edo State Governorship Election chaired by Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje at the party’s secretariat in Abuja, he said their visits to the founding fathers of the party in Lagos and Osun states were fruitful. He said last week’s visit to Chief Bisi Akande and Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu had justified the new approach with very positive results after consultations, advising the committees to engage in an all-inclusive consultation to accommodate and fix areas posing threats to the party. Speaking, Dr. Ganduje said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Council in Edo State and Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, would recover from isolation centre after the victory of the governorship candidate of the APC. Buni also inaugurated the Reconciliation Committees for Edo and Ondo states chaired by a former Senate President, Sen. Ken Nnamani and the Governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello, respectively. Reacting to a question regarding whether his team would have a soft-landing for the PDP governorship candidate and Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State who was his colleague in the ruling party few weeks ago, he said there would be nothing like that. He said the APC would dismantle all the tactics of the opposition to rig the election, adding “We know the opposition is planning to rig the election. We know their tactics. We know their methodologies and we shall dismantle all their tactics to ensure that we win this election. “The PDP decided to accommodate our former Governor in Edo State not because they have anything in common, not because they share some feelings, but simply because he is managing the treasury of Edo State and they want him to use that treasury in order to win the election.” Meanwhile, PDP has taken a swipe at Ganduje, saying he has no moral justification to speak on corruption in the country. In a statement Monday, by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP said the resources of Edo State, and other PDP states, belonged to the people and not to any political cabal or their godfathers. Similarly, some members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have formed a new group known as APC NEC Integrity Group. The group, in a letter dated July 1, 2020 to Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State-led APC caretaker committee, presented members of its executive and board of trustees. The letter, jointly signed by Hon. Abubakar Sadiq Saadu (chairman) and David Okumba (secretary), lauded President Muhammadu Buhari over the dissolution of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party.  Edo 2020: We will send Wike to isolation centre — Ganduje Gov Mai Mala Buni seeks Bisi Akande support on APC reconciliation APC crisis: The titanic battles before Buni committee