The Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has expressed satisfaction with the new layout of the busy Allen Avenue junction on Obafemi Awolowo Way, Ikeja, following the removal of the broad roundabout at the junction to create a seamless flow of traffic. The Allen Avenue junction was one of spots across the metropolis notorious for vehicular logjam and identified as an impediment to a free flow of traffic. Sanwo-Olu also commended the re-designing of the Ikotun roundabout and Maryland junction on the Mobolaji Bank-Anthony Way, which, he said, had led to the improvement of traffic flow in the areas. He explained that his administration, in line with the traffic management agenda, awarded contracts for the re-designing and construction of the identified traffic-prone spots across the state. The governor, in a statement issued yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akoshile, noted that 16 highways were undergoing re-construction and junction improvements. “Three of the six junctions captured in the first phase of road improvement programme have been completed. They are Allen Junction, Ikotun Roundabout and Maryland Junction. Work is almost completed on three roundabouts in the Lekki and Ajah of Eti-Osa areas of the state. Government considered the road improvement programme as one that will relieve commuters of the burden of heavy traffic. “I am particularly excited that the famous Allen Roundabout is a lot more befitting now, with the new design and road furniture we have put in place. What is now required of those plying the road is maintenance of the road furniture, because it is a new better experience for the road users. Apart from re-designing the junction, there are light traffic cameras installed on this junction from where we can remotely monitor what is happening on the axis any time of the day. In addition, the junction was widened with the creation of pedestrian walkways, zebra crossing, setbacks and laybys for commercial buses to pick and drop passengers,” he said, stressing that the aim was to reduce journey time and increase productivity. The Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has expressed satisfaction with the new layout of the busy Allen Avenue junction on Obafemi Awolowo Way, Ikeja, following the removal of the broad roundabout at the junction to create a seamless flow of traffic. The Allen Avenue junction was one of spots across the metropolis notorious for vehicular logjam and identified as an impediment to a free flow of traffic. Sanwo-Olu also commended the re-designing of the Ikotun roundabout and Maryland junction on the Mobolaji Bank-Anthony Way, which, he said, had led to the improvement of traffic flow in the areas. He explained that his administration, in line with the traffic management agenda, awarded contracts for the re-designing and construction of the identified traffic-prone spots across the state. The governor, in a statement issued yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akoshile, noted that 16 highways were undergoing re-construction and junction improvements. “Three of the six junctions captured in the first phase of road improvement programme have been completed. They are Allen Junction, Ikotun Roundabout and Maryland Junction. Work is almost completed on three roundabouts in the Lekki and Ajah of Eti-Osa areas of the state. Government considered the road improvement programme as one that will relieve commuters of the burden of heavy traffic. “I am particularly excited that the famous Allen Roundabout is a lot more befitting now, with the new design and road furniture we have put in place. What is now required of those plying the road is maintenance of the road furniture, because it is a new better experience for the road users. Apart from re-designing the junction, there are light traffic cameras installed on this junction from where we can remotely monitor what is happening on the axis any time of the day. In addition, the junction was widened with the creation of pedestrian walkways, zebra crossing, setbacks and laybys for commercial buses to pick and drop passengers,” he said, stressing that the aim was to reduce journey time and increase productivity.