The Anti-Corruption and Integrity Forum has condemned the media attacks on Abuja-based pastor of Divine Hand of God Prophetic Ministries International, Pastor Emmanuel Omale. The forum described as blackmail the recent articles circulated over the media about the Abuja-based pastor, saying it was an attempt to discredit him for no apparent reason. Pastor Omale, was reportedly linked to the embattled suspended acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, over a foreign property. But, in a statement signed Wednesday in Abuja by the chairman of the anti corruption forum, Comrade Prince Kpokpogri, the forum said that Prophet Omale “is a pastor and a shepherd with flock of all shades and colours. “Omale is a credible person and he is completely apolitical. “Omale has no personal link with Ibrahim Magu other than a pastor to member relationship. “So, those allegations are baseless yet highly provoking.” The statement added that the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) and the Presidential Committee on Audit of Recovered Assets (PCARA) have not released any statement suggesting that there was a link between Ibrahim Magu and Prophet Omale neither had they admitted that there was any of such relationship, yet the media went on a campaign of calumny. “While it is normal for the media to scout for news to report, they shouldn’t condescend to the point of making speculations where there is no truth. “Any news media seen circulating such falsehood should begin to question its integrity. “Journalists must desist from spreading falsehood and should rather focus on the promotion of the ethics of this fine profession. “As journalists have freedom of expression they should also understand that at this point they are violating Prophet Omale’s right and freedom to associate with anybody he sees fit. “The constitution guarantees everyone freedom of association. “It doesn’t matter if the person is a Muslim or a Christian”, he reiterated. N573m property: I only visited Magu in Dubai hospital – Prophet Omale Magu: PDP left behind huge corruption mess - Presidency The Ibrahim Magu takedown