President Muhammadu Buhari has appreciated the efforts of governors elected on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), following the successful conduct of the party primaries in Edo and Ondo states. The president spoke on Tuesday during a virtual interaction with the governors of the APC-controlled states attended by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. “I am happy that they knew their responsibilities as governors and had identified the right priorities,” Buhari said in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu. The meeting was held ahead of the governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states on September 19, 2020 and October 10, 2020 respectively. Buhari used the meeting to hail members of the Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker Committee for the work they were doing in repositioning the party. Recall that following the dissolution of the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC in June, the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party chose the Yobe State governor and others as the Chairman and members of the caretaker committee as well as of the extraordinary National Convention Committee respectively. Buhari said he was pleased with the work the caretaker committee has been doing. “I am pleased with the chairman and the work of the committee. He is highly mobile in the efforts to coordinate and strengthen the party. I am happy with his personal efforts,” Buhari said. Governor of Kebbi State and Chairman of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) Senator Atiku Bagudu, who spoke on behalf of his colleagues, thanked President Buhari for taking the right steps to resolve the crisis in the party. The APC governors, who also lauded the president for his handling of security issues and the economy, noted in particular, the success recorded in pulling the country out of the 2016 economic recession as well as the ongoing management of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We are proud of your leadership and achievements,” the governors told President Buhari. Buhari meets APC governors, speaks on Edo, Ondo governorship polls APC crisis: Party deputy spokesman urges Buhari to convene emergency NEC meeting APC constitution will decide how presidential candidate will emerge — Gov Abubakar