Two trans fat-free groups: Network for Health Equity and Development (NHED) and Corporate Accountability and Public Participation Africa (CAPPA), say they have unveiled series of Public Service Announcement (PSA) for public health groups to address health dangers posed to human existence by trans fat in the country. The Executive Director of CAPPA, Mr. Akinbode Oluwafemi, in a statement on Monday in Abuja, said PSAs would also assist in regulating trans fat consumption in the country. Mr. Oluwafemi described trans fat as a food component that had been linked to more than half a million deaths per year. According to him, research findings revealed that sustained high trans fat in the body leads to increased bad cholesterol, lowers good cholesterol, coronary heart disease, dementia, Alzheimer’s disease and other cognitive diseases. Oluwafemi explained that according to the latest available data, trans-fat consumption also increased the risk of heart attack and death; with an estimated 540,000 fatalities globally in 2010. He added that, “Of this number, 1,261 were recorded in Nigeria.” Also, NHED Project Technical Adviser on Trans fat Elimination, Dr. Jerome Mafeni, urged NAFDAC and stakeholders to take action against trans-fat in the country. Dr. Jerome said, “Industrially produced trans-fatty acids are silent killers, which very few people know about, yet they are present in many of the foods we all love to eat. “The World Health Organisation (WHO) has made global trans fat elimination a priority – WHO 13th General Programme of Work (WHO/PRP/18.1 2019), and has called on governments to enact mandatory measures to protect the public health from trans-fat consumption (WHO REPLACE Module 4: Legislate or regulate, WHO/NMH/NHD/19.14 2019). “WHO considers a mandatory limit of 2g of trans-fat per 100g of total fat in all fats, oils and foods to be a best-practice measure. “At least, 29 countries have taken steps to limit trans-fat in their food supplies, including South Africa, India, Brazil, UK, US, Canada, Turkey and Thailand and there has been consistent call from health experts and advocates for Nigeria to follow suit.” Trans fat is present in baked foods such as cakes, cookies and pies, as well as fried foods, including French fries, doughnuts and fried chicken. (NAN) NAFDAC launches videos to eliminate transfat Coalition raises alarm over trans-fat poison in Nigerian foods Anti-fat brigade comes to ban trans-fat in your diet