The chairman of ward 10, All Progressives Congress in Etsako West local government of Edo state, Mr. Stephen Oshawo, has said that he has no regret suspending former national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, from his ward. The suspension eventually led to his removal as the national chairman. He made the remark in Benin while receiving an Award of honor for good governance as an outstanding political icon of the year, from Chief Executive Officer of Mega House Entertainment, Goodluck Osama Ogbeide. Oshawo said when he was there as the chairman of ward 10 when Oshiomhole was the governor of the state, his pension was not paid for eight months but when Godwin Obaseki took over from him as the governor of the state, it didn’t take him a month for his own pension to be paid. “The truth is that, when the former governor (Oshiomhole) was in power as the governor of the state, I was an insider, I was the chairman of ward 10. “I suffered many things and nobody knew me or recognized me. “As a chairman to the governor of the state, I couldn’t receive my gratuity as a pensioner and as a chairman to Oshiomhole when he was still the governor of the state, I was not able to get my pension for eight months but when Godwin Obaseki came in, it didn’t take him up to a month, to pay my gratuity and not only me but all the pensioners in Edo State,” he said. According to him, the award was a pat on his back for standing up to eliminate godfatherism from the state politics, adding that it will spur him to always stand for what is right. Oshawo, however, denied the rumour that he is facing threat from his community. “I just came back from home yesterday because of this award. “I have been at home for more than a week now. “If not that Comrade Goodluck called me yesterday about the award, I would have been at home by now. “Nobody drove me from my home. “I stay in my home, I work in my home,” he said. Oshawo added, ”rather what I have done by suspending the national chairman of the party from my ward has made me more popular”. APC crisis: Ward exco torn over lift of Oshiomhole suspension Ward exco lifts Oshiomole’s suspension, as Worgu gets set to replace Giadom Oshiomhole appeals suspension order, seeks stay of judgement