The family of Taiwo Ohunenese, a deaconess with the Living Faith Church, who was allegedly crushed by Zeberced Nigeria Limited truck at a multiple road crash scene in Nyanya, has cried out for justice. A Magistrate court sitting at Karu in the Federal Captial Territory (FCT), has docked one Zubairu Haruna, 29, who was driving the Zeberced truck that killed the woman. At the mention of the case, the prosecutor Stanley Nwafor told the court that late Mrs Ohunenese, mother of four, was killed by Haruna as a result of what he called reckless and dangerous driving. The prosecutor said the road crash occurred on  March 9, 2018, along the AYA-Nyanya highway opposite NNPC filling station, Nyanya, Abuja, and the matter was reported to the police station in the area but the driver who was held in custody later jumped bail two years ago. He said he was tracked and arrested in Port Harcourt last Friday. The road crash which involved many vehicles, City News learnt killed at least nine persons and it involved a Zeberced Sinotruck with Reg. No.ABJ 462 XN and eight other vehicles. Mrs Ohunenese was driving a Toyota Corolla with Reg. No. BWR 446 AA and another Zeberced Howo Sinotruck with Reg. No ABJ 457 XN driven by one Yahuza Rabo, hit her car at the back and in the process of resolving the issue by the road side, one of the other trucks ran into them and killed her and the others. Counsel to the late Ohunenese’s family,  Barr. Akeremale Abayomi, while speaking with journalists at the court premises,  said justice delayed is justice denied. He stressed that the case was a serious matter that deserved quick dispensation of justice. The magistrate, Emmanuel Iyanna, however, granted bail to the defendant in the sum of N500,000.00 with two reasonable sureties who must have valid means of identification and must deposit their international passports with the court registrar. The court adjourned the case till August 17, 2020 for the commencement of trial. Death scare grips motorists along AYA, Nyanya expressway Outrage as govt clears Abuja-Keffi highway corridor Stop blocking Nyanya-AYA road