After resigning as Secretary to the Ondo State Government, Hon. Ifedayo Sunday Abegunde, has opened up on how they rigged the 2016 election allegedly in favour of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. Abegunde declared this on Monday while speaking on a radio programme, Crest 87.7 FM in Akure, the state capital. “Akeredolu did not win the election in 2016 but we made it possible for him to become governor. “We were the pillars behind him but we will not support him again. He will lose this time around,” he said. Abegunde further said he resigned because he could no longer be part of a government that made its subjects to pass through hardship. “The government of Akeredolu is making the entire people of the state to suffer and I cannot be part of that any longer. “Everyone is suffering. “He does not pay salaries at the right time. “As a matter of fact, Akeredolu has not performed to the expectations of the masses apart from the roads he is building,” he said. ‘Abegunde should be arrested’ Reacting, Akeredolu called for Abegunde’s arrest. Speaking through his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr. Ojo Oyewande, the governor said the former SSG should be arrested to give further details on how the election was rigged. “At least he knows the details and he should tell us,” he said. Meanwhile, more aides of Akeredolu, may be planning to quit the state cabinet, Daily Trust gathered. The news of the impending resignation of more of the aides filtered round the state shortly after Abegunde resigned yesterday. Recall that the deputy governor, Mr. Agboola Ajayi, had some weeks ago dumped the All Progressives Congress (APC) and joined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ajayi is set to contest the governorship election against Akeredolu. The former SSG has, however, denied reports that he was planning to join forces with Ajayi to wrest power from Akeredolu. It was gathered that the former SSG would remain in APC and work for another candidate, Olusegun Abraham, targeting the position of deputy governor. One of the leaders in Abraham’s camp who spoke under anonymity told Daily Trust that the SSG had contacted the group, asking for the position of deputy governor. Ondo Gov, Akeredolu recovers from COVID-19 Ondo's SSG, Abegunde, resigns Akeredolu calls for vocational centres for graduates