…Another sentences teenager to imprisonment for theft The FCT High Court in Kubwa, on Monday, ordered that two accused persons, Mohammed Musa and Nura Shuaibu, be remanded in a correctional facility for alleged culpable homicide and causing grievous hurt. The police arraigned the accused, residents of Dakwa, Abuja, on a four-count charge bordering on culpable homicide to which they pleaded not guilty. Justice Bello Kawu adjourned the case to July 17, for ruling on the bail application made by the defence counsel, Charles Okoye, and ordered the remand of the accused. Earlier, the Prosecutor, Adama Musa, told the court that the accused conspired and caused the death of a 28-year-old man, Ibrahim Awal, by striking him on the head and other parts of his body with a cutlass on December 5, 2019. He alleged that the defendants also attempted to kill one Husseni Mohammed by stabbing him with a knife in his stomach and cut off his wrists in Dakwa on the same date. The prosecutor said Mohammed suffered a permanent disability as a result, adding that the offence contravened Sections 97, 220 and 243 of the Penal Code. The counsel to the accused, however, moved a motion for bail of his clients with a five-paragraph affidavit and said the defendants had been in custody for three months. He drew the attention of the court to a big tumour on Musa’s neck that had been growing without any attention in prison to save him aside paracetamol that he was given. Okoye, therefore, asked the court to grant the defendants bail so that they could access proper medical care, adding that credible sureties would be provided if granted. Similarly, a Dutse Grade I Area Court, Abuja, on Monday sentenced one Hamid Mustapha (19) to two weeks imprisonment for stealing a cell phone valued at N15,000. The judge, Mr. Suleiman Mohammed, held that the convict failed to give the court a reasonable explanation why he committed the crime. Mohammed charged the convict to desist from any criminal act or face a more stringent punishment if found wanting in future. The convict, who resides in Ushafa, FCT, was convicted of criminal trespass and theft and he pleaded guilty. Earlier, the Prosecutor, Mr. Tunde Arowolo, told the court that one Ms. Folashade Olaniyi reported the matter at the Bwari Police Station on June 21, 2020. According to Arowolo, the convict, on the same date, broke into the complainant’s bedroom through the window and stole her phone worth N15,000. The prosecutor also said the convict was arrested and that during police investigation, the phone was recovered from him. Arowolo noted that the offence contravened the provisions of Sections 342 and 287 of the Penal Code. (NAN) Court remands 4 persons over alleged culpable homicide Man held over attempt to poison neighbour Court remands 8 men who allegedly beheaded cop