President Muhammadu Buhari has nominated 41 non-career ambassadors-designate. The president also nominated one career ambassador-designate representing the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The nominations was contained in a letter Buhari addressed to the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, requesting the confirmation of the nominees. The president’s letter was read by Lawan after the Red Chamber emerged from an executive session on Wednesday. This is coming weeks after the Senate confirmed 42 career ambassadors-designate nominated by the president. The president’s letter reads: “In accordance to section 171 (1),(2)(c) & sub-section (4) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended, I have the honour to forward for confirmation by the Senate, the underlisted 41 names of nominees as non-career Ambassadors-Designate. “Copies of their Curriculum Vitae are attached herewith.” The list showed that Kano, Kwara and Oyo had three nominees each, two each from Benue, Borno and Adamawa, while the rest, except Abia and FCT, had one nominee each. Senator Philip Aduda (PDP, FCT) raised an observation that FCT was not represented in the president’s list of non-career ambassadors-designate and asked the Senate to ensure that his constituency is included. The nominees are: Engr Umar Suleiman (Adamawa); L.S. Mandama (Adamawa); Oboro Effiong Akpabio (Akwa Ibom); Chief Elejah Onyeagba (Anambra); Abubakar D. Ibrahim Siyi (Bauchi); Philip K. Ikurusi (Bayelsa); Hon. Tarzcor Terhemen (Benue); Paul Oga Adikwu (Benue); Al-Bishir Ibrahim Al-Hussain (Borno); Brig Gen. Bwala Yusuf Bukar (Borno); Prof. Monique Ekpong (Cross River); Oma Djebah (Delta); Ominyi N. Eze, Ebonyi (Ebonyi); Yamah Mohammed Musa (Edo); Maj. Gen. C. O. Ugwu (Enugu); and Dr. Hajara I. Salim (Gombe). Others are: Obiezu Ijeoma Chinyerem (Imo); Ali M. Magashi (Jigawa); Prof. M. A. Makarfi (Kaduna); Hamisu Umar Takalmawa (Kano); Imam Galandanci (Kano); Amina Ado Kurawa (Kano); Amb. Yahaya Lawal (Katsina); Dare Sunday Awoniyi (Kogi); Ibrahim Kayode Laaro (Kwara), Abioye Bello (Kwara); Zara Maazu Umar (Kwara); Ademola Seriki (Lagos); Henry John Omaku (Nasarawa); Chief Sarafa Tunji Ishola (Ogun); Mrs. Nimi Akinkube (Ondo); Adejaba Bello (Osun); Adeshina Alege (Oyo); Debo Adesina (Oyo); Ms. Folakemi Akinyele (Oyo); Shehu Abdullahi Yibaikwai (Plateau); Hon. Maureen Tamuno (Rivers); Faruk Yabo (Sokoto); Adamu M. Hassan (Taraba); Alhaji Yusuf Mohammed (Yobe); and Abubakar Moriki (Zamfara). President Buhari also requested the Senate to confirm appointment of Idahahbon Williams Omoregie Henry as Commissioner representing Edo, Ekiti and Ondo in the Federal Civil Service Commission. The president also forwarded for Senate’s confirmation, the appointment of Engr Usman Mahmud Hassan as commissioner representing Kaduna in the Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission. FULL LIST: Names and states of non-career ambassadors-designate Buhari appoints 42 career ambassadors Senate confirms 42 career Ambassadors-designate, Federal Character nominee