Alliance for Surviving COVID-19 and Beyond (ASCAB) on Tuesday said the recently launched N1tn Economic Sustainability Plan to stimulate the economy in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic would achieve the desired result with the adoption of public works system in undertaking “massive road infrastructure and housing works, among others.” The group stated this in its economic report unveiled at a virtual press conference. ASCAB, a coalition of some 80 civil society groups spread across Nigeria, including the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC), also called for abolition of all public health charges and basic education charges as well as cancel charges for higher education until the end of the year. In the report presented by one of its leaders, Comrade Jaye Gaskiya, the group demanded that the government should significantly increase budgets for health, education and water/sanitation in line with international norms to save more lives. Other recommendations of the group include, that there should be no job or wage cuts by governments or the private sector; the planned expansion of the Social Register should be expanded to include all people existing below the poverty line. “All defaults on rent, electricity and debt repayments should not result in penalties or sanctions. “All households, residential institutions and the homeless must be provided access to safe drinking water, either through public pipe borne water or water tankers, public or private, at government expense,” the report stated. Speaking on the concern over the dwindling revenues to the government, Gaskiya expressed confidence that the recommendations, especially on the abolition of charges are feasible if the government plugged all the loopholes. He said there were about 60 organisations not remitting to the federal government as stipulated. “If all these resources are put together and we are demanding that the resources should be put together. “We are confident that it is possible to meet these demands. “We are very confident that it can be done and we are saying we need to clean up the mess. “Public investments have to be in the interest of the people,” Gaskiya said. COVID-19: NEC plans N2trn stimulus package Private schools owners seek FG's loan, stimulus package COVID-19: N/Assembly yet to make desired impact —YIAGA Africa