For 24-year-old Chief Executive Officer of Assiddiq Textile Company, Abubakar Umar Bala, popularly known as Assiddiqul Akbar, leveraging social media and home deliveries have been the survival strategies in the face of COVID-19 pandemic. Abubakar clinched Facebook Young Entrepreneur of the year 2019, the youngest and fast-growing entrepreneur of the year by Caliphate Youths Awards as well as most hardworking /dedicated young entrepreneur of the year 2019 by Anti -AIDS Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. He declares: “Right from the time I made my mind to embark on the business journey, many people have been giving me all sorts of motivation I need to get going: my mum and my late father; my elder brother; my family; my lecturers; my friends and well-wishers amongst others. “Many notable personalities patronise our products and services as a way to support me. Assiddiq Textile is now becoming a household industry not only in Sokoto State but beyond. Our delivery service goes beyond the state. And our hope is to keep working in this direction.” Sharing his experiences during the COVID-19 pandemic, the world class designer confirmed that “we’re among the businesses that are affected the most. We travel within and outside the country to buy the stuff we use as our raw materials to enable us to serve our esteemed customers,” he points out. “Coping with the adverse effects of COVID-19 pandemic has never been easy. Only food items are allowed to be transported from state to state during the lockdown. Our staff have to also close before 8 pm during the lockdown. And the health regulations do not allow physical contact, so even with the easing of lockdown restrictions, we have to maintain physical distancing, provided masks and gloves as well as hand sanitisers to our staff. “ It was against this backdrop, the business took to operating more on social media and thereby introduced home reach out and delivery. The CEO added: “I reschedule our staff to work on a shifting basis. In this way, we’re able to cope with the situation hoping for the condition to get better in the country.” The textile dealer and designer, who holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in English Language from Sokoto State University, said during COVID-19 lockdown, many customers do measurements themselves and send their sizes to them. “That’s why we engaged in more home deliveries,” he states. “Our deliveries on outfits stuff range from 10 to 20 per day averagely. For outfits, we have to see them before embarking on deliveries. That’s why for sewn outfits, our deliveries are Saturdays and Sundays. The average deliveries during this period are usually about 25 to 40 per week.” Abubakar, who is awaiting call-up to the National Youths Service, recounted his entry into the biz world. He said: “Upon my admission into the University in 2014, having come from a rather poor family, I realised I have to find a way to support myself at least in the short term to see me through the university. “That’s how I started the business journey by collecting the materials from a dealer to sell and earn some profits before I later started going to Kano, Aba and Cotonou in Benin Republic to buy clothing materials and come back home and sell them. At the same time, I attended classes.” According to him, he didn’t start with cash but “only collect materials and sell, then return the capital, take away the profits and collect materials again. Later, I raised the sum of N120, 000 to start my capital.” The CEO recalls that when he started, the business was not very profitable. “You have to sell, return the capital and the little profit is what you earn. But as the business grows, and I begin to get larger capital, I continue to expand the capital so that we can generate larger profit. Today, I can confirm to you our business is at a rapidly growing stage. We have a large number of customers across ethnic, religious, social and political divides.” Assiddiq Textiles, which started with one machine and supporting staff, now has nine members in the team. “During COVID-19 lockdown, we didn’t reduce the supporting staff; we only made them work on rotation. After all, we do not pay our staff fixed wage but per the number of sets of outfits they design or make,” he explained. Abubakar would not forget in a hurry one experience concerning his business and COVID-19. “I can vividly remember that despite wearing a face mask, hand gloves and washing our hands with enough soap and water in addition to the application of hand sanitiser, we developed a fear of collecting cash after a transaction,” he recalled. “We ask for a bank transfer. We assumed that it could be that someone infected with COVID-19 might have touched the money. I could recall one elderly customer venting his anger on us that despite rejecting them, closing our mouth and hands all because we’re afraid that they may be carrying a disease, we still don’t trust collecting cash from them. “From that day, he didn’t come back. And the last transaction he made before the unfortunate day he felt angry and left was about N80, 000. Many customers felt like we were rejecting them due to the measures we took according to the NCDC to protect ourselves. “Now, I learned that sometimes in business, quantity apart from the quality of your products also matters a lot.” At what point did being of service change him for the better? Abubakar had this to say: “When I started my business journey, I never thought it could grow this big. Then, I started to see some of our customers wearing our branded outfits in the UK, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, and Algeria, among other places.”  ‘You must be organised to grow as an entrepreneur’ ‘I earn over N100,000 from shoemaking monthly’ Corporate ‘boli’: How young female entrepreneur turned roasted plantain into organised business