The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has said it remitted N66 billion as stamp duty revenue into the federation account between January to May this year. The Executive Chairman, Mr. Muhammad Nami, disclosed this Tuesday in Abuja during the inauguration of the inter-ministerial committee on the audit & recovery of stamp duty and launch of FIRS adhesive stamp. Giving a breakdown of further collections and remittances he said the total Stamp Duty collection for Jan – Dec 2019 stood at N18bn. Nami disclosed that the total  collection  by  the revenue agency  from  January  to to  June  29th  this year  is  as follows: “Stamp duties remitted by Money Deposit Banks (MDBs) was N20.00bn, stamp duties revenue from stamping of instruments was 7.90bn, amount hitherto warehoused with CBN now remitted to    Federation Account was N39.00bn and the total stamp duty remitted into Federation Account from    January, 2020 – May, 2020 was N66.00bn.” He attributed the  significant  increase in the revenue source to “the  dynamism  triggered  by  Finance Act  2019,  sums  warehoused  by  the  CBN  in  respect  of  prior  years, deployment of technology and stakeholders collaboration.” Nami also indicated that the “collection performance of Stamp Duties hitherto witnessed is a tip of the iceberg compared to its potentials.” He explained that the amendment and effective implementation  of  the  Stamp  Duty  Act,  simplified  administrative processes  plus  the  audit  and  recovery  exercise  will  raise  the  bar significantly. The tax expert noted that the dependence on postage stamps for denoting Stamp Duties is one of the factors accounting for low collections in the past. Also commenting at the event, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Usman, said stamp duties can potentially yield up to N1trn revenue annually if harnessed. She noted that Buhari led administration was putting in place innovative processes and efficient tax administration bearing in mind the dwindling revenue trend occasioned by the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy. Ahmed explained that given the global economic crisis and the impact on revenues, the need to grow tax revenue had become critical, adding that stamp duties open up a stream of untapped revenue opportunity. FG generates N66bn from stamp duty in five months NIPOST insists on collecting stamp duty CBN, SGF, FIRS shun FOIA requests over N20trn stamp duty revenue