Over 2,500 delegates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) would decide the fate of Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu and 11 others seeking the party’s ticket ahead of the October 10, 2020 governorship election in the state. The APC top echelon has settled for indirect primary for the election of the party’s candidate. It was not clear at the time of filing this report if the exercise will take place today as earlier scheduled or on a later date, as APC officials kept mum amid rumour of postponement. The 12 contenders seeking the party’s ticket include Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, Joseph Olusola Iji, Odimayo Okunjimi, Olayide Owolabi Adelami, Kekemeke Duerimini, Olusola Oke Alex, Ifeoluwa Olusola Oyedele and Awodeyi Akinsehinwa Akinola Colinus. Others are Olubukola Olarogba Okunola Adetula, Dr Abraham Olusegun Michael, Dr Nathaniel Olumuyiwa Adojutelegan and Olajumoke Olubusola Anifowoshe. The state publicity secretary of the APC, Mr Alex Kalejaiye, told Daily Trust yesterday, that there would be 12 delegates from each of the 203 wards while 72 would come from the state executive. “We have delegates from local government areas; we have House of Assembly and National Assembly members as automatic delegates. We also have special delegates,” he said. But Daily Trust reports that there are pockets of skirmishes as 11 of the 12 aspirants have threatened to work against the party if direct primary was not adopted for the exercise. However, Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, who is chairman of the APC Primary Election Committee, told newsmen on Friday, after the inauguration of the committee, that the aspirants could not dictate to the party. “It is not within the purview of contestants to choose rules of engagement. We follow laid down rules and regulations of the party. As members, we should abide by the rules and regulations,” he said. Yobe State governor and chairman of the APC National Caretaker Committee, Mai Mala Buni, who inaugurated the committee said, “There is no doubt; we are committed to renewing the mandate from the good people of Ondo State. I wish to caution our aspirants to respect the rules governing the party primary.” I’m confident of winning — Dov Akeredolu Meanwhile, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu has expressed optimism that he will win the governorship primary poll. He told Daily Trust through his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mr Ojo Oyewamide, yesterday that he was a symbol of progressive movement in the state and was sure of emerging victorious. Similarly, one of the aspirants, Chief Sola Oke, who spoke with Daily Trust urged Governor Bello’s committee to conduct free, fair, transparent and credible poll. Oke, speaking through his Media Aide, Mr Rotimi Oguleye, cautioned those allegedly planning to use thugs to disrupt the poll to desist from such act. Similarly, Dr Olusegun Abraham, another contender and ally of the APC leader, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, also wants to be announced as the winner of the election, saying that only God determined a winner. Engineer Ife Oyedele, who is also aspiring for the party’s ticket, said he was sure of victory.  Ondo APC primary: Presidency favours Akeredolu, Tinubu’s camp in shock over Abraham '11 Ondo APC governorship aspirants want direct primary' Jostle for APC guber ticket intensifies in Ondo