The Ondo State Deputy governor, Hon Agboola Ajayi, has said that although he is on guard in case of any funny move to have him removed from office but his concern at the moment is how to win the governorship primary election of the PDP coming up on Wednesday July 22. He said he had visited 192 wards out of the 203 wards in the state to talk to delegates on the need to give him their votes and support. Speaking through his Chief Press sSecretary, Mr Babatope Okeowo, the deputy governor said what is before him at the moment is how to win the primary. He said the only eleven wards left for him to complete his tour of the state are in Akure Local Government Area, adding that he will touch those places before the election. He said he still remains the deputy governor of the state and he is on his guards. Ajayi had resigned his membership of the APC and joined the PDP about three weeks ago. Subsequently, the House of Assembly had moved to impeach him and have him removed from office. Nine members of the House who are backing the deputy governor had written a letter to the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Oluwatoyin Akeredolu, saying that they were opposing the planned impeachment of the deputy governor. They therefore distanced themselves from the planned impeachment against him. In the letter dated July 9, 2020, the lawmakers said they have duly disassociated themselves from the ongoing impeachment process of the deputy governor in a letter sent to the clerk and the Speaker of Ondo State House of Assembly. The letter reads in part, “Kindly be informed that Nine (9) underlisted elected Honourable Members of Ondo State House of Assembly have duly disassociated ourselves from the ongoing impeachment process of the Deputy Governor, H.E (HON) Agboola Afred Ajayi in a letter dated 7th July,2020, to the clerk and the Rt Honourable Speaker of Ondo State House of Assembly here with attached. “We want to state and confirm to your good office that we maintain our stand by dissociating ourselves from the impeachment process. We are not in support of the impeachment based on our individual personal conviction. “We are rest assured that your lordship will uphold section 188 of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) particularly section 188 (3)(4)(5)-(11) “It is equally worthy of note that the total membership of Ondo State House of Assembly is (26) twenty six in which the 2/3 is and this remains the constitutionally required number irrespective of any arbitrary suspension. “We are writing to call your attention to the fact that all or some of us who are signatories to this letter may be suspended in order to circumvent the provision of the Constitution of Nigeria, which we all swore to uphold and protect, including your honourable Lordship, as this will be contrary to the laws of the land.” The nine lawmakers had also gone to court to drive home their point. They joined the Chief Justice, House of Assembly and Speaker in the suit. On the part of the Speaker of the Ondo State House of Assembly, Hon Bamidele Oleyelogun, he had asked the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Akeredolu, to set up a 7-man panel to investigate notice of gross misconduct levelled against the Deputy Governor, Hon Agboola Ajayi. A total of 14 lawmakers had signed an impeachment notice against Hon Ajayi earlier. Speaker Oleyelogun said the setting up of the panel was in line with section 188 (5) of the 1999 Constitution as amended. A letter to the CJ and signed by the Speaker reads, “By the Resolution of the House today pursuant to Section 188 (3) and (4) of the 1999 Constitution as amended it was resolved that the allegations be investigated forthwith. “It is in line with the above that request that you set up the 7-man panel to conduct the investigation as resolved by the Honourable House and the Panel, shall soon as possible, report back to the House. But the CJ in her reply made it clear that there was no way she could set up the 7-man panel because the House has not met the requirements stated by the law. The Chief Judge in her reply dated July 7,2020 said that the figure required by the 1999 constitution for setting up of such a probe panel has not been met. She said the constitution requires two third majority. In a letter personally signed by her, the CJ also said the matter of impeachment was already a subject of litigation (sub judice). At the moment, it seems both the state governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, the deputy governor, Speaker of the House and all concerned are busy with the election and the issue of impeachment may have been put on hold until after the primary election of both APC and PDP slated for next week. Meanwhile, the suspended Deputy Speaker of the House, Hon Iroju Ogundeji, told Daily Trust on Sunday that he is still consulting with people of his constituency before he will know the next line of action. Iroju said he was elected to represent a people and the Speaker does not have the power to suspend him. Ondo 2020: Akeredolu sacks deputy governor's aide Impeachment: Ondo Speakers asks Chief judge to Set up panel to probe Deputy Gov Rescue APC, governors beg Buhari