Since the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development began enrolment for Batch C beneficiaries of N-Power last Friday June 26, over one million youths have applied. The Ministry in a statement said all young Nigerians between the ages of 18-35 with or without formal education can apply for a slot in the new programme which would be very focused on agriculture. “This batch will focus on N-Teach; N-Health; N-Agro as well as N-Build, N-Creative and N-Tech.” “Under the guidelines provided by the programme, N-Teach & N-Health are open only to graduates while graduates and non-graduates are eligible to apply to N-Agro as well as N- Build, N-Creative and N-Tech,”the statement said. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Umar Farouq noted that “by enrolling a new Batch, the N-Power programme (a key component of the National Social Investment Programme) is providing opportunities for more Nigerian youths to gain skills for employability and entrepreneurship. It is also providing a pipeline of skilled Nigerians to help rebuild the economy post-Covid 19.” She assured eligible Nigerians aged 18-35 given opportunity to participate in Batch-C enrollment of the use of a transparent and hybrid system which leverages technology as well as traditional means of enrolment while prioritising women and people living with disabilities because PLWD make up 15% of our population. Applicants are encouraged to have the following as they log in to apply to – npower.fmhds.gov.ng BVN Number, current passport photograph (jpeg or png); email address and academic certification/certificate. Announcing the Ministry’s plans to streamline the programme for efficiency, the Ministry had noted that “comprehensive details for the new batch C will be announced in the coming weeks.” The Ministry assures Nigerians that the N-Power portal is secured and no data has been compromised. N-Power beneficiaries lament non-payment of stipends Tears, more tears as unemployed Nigerians seek N-Power recruitment Over 3m apply for N-Power jobs in one week