Dr Nathaniel Adojutelegan, one of the governorship aspirants on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State, has claimed that 11 out of 12 contenders for the party’s sole ticket for the election have expressed preference for direct mode of primary election. Dr Adojutelegan, who said this on Saturday in Abuja while fielding questions from journalists, explained that direct primary, which allows every card carrying member to participate in the decision to choose governorship candidate, would unify party members. While calling on the national leadership of the party to adopt direct mode of primary election for Ondo State, he said the method would guarantee a level playing field for all aspirants and avoid exclusion and disenfranchisement of members. “The APC 2018 Congress was fraught with irregularities. “As we speak, we have three excos in Ondo. “One is recognised, others have legal proceedings,” he added while speaking on the undesirability of indirect or delegates primary. Dr Adojutelegan, while speaking on his mission for the state, said his administration would initiate people-oriented policies, address local needs, lead a transparent and accountable government, as well as enable youth acquire relevant skills required to build the state. Daily Trust learned that a meeting was scheduled with all the aspirants last Saturday in Ondo. The APC had fixed Ondo State Governorship Primary Election for July 20, 2020 ahead of the main election scheduled for October 10, 2020. The screening of Ondo State aspirants will hold this Wednesday, July 8, 2020, while screening appeal (Ondo) holds on Friday July 10, 2020. The 12 aspirants had boosted the revenue of the party with N258.75 million from the sale of expression of interest and nomination forms as each governorship aspirant paid N22.5 million, including N2.5 million for expression of interest form and N20 million for the nomination form. The female aspirant among them paid 50 per cent of the fee. The 12 aspirants, who bought the forms are; Oluwatimi Odunayo Akeredolu, Joseph Olusola Iji, Odimayo Okunjimi, Olayide Owolabi Adelami, Kekemeke Duerimini, Olusola Oke Alex, Ifeoluwa Olusola Oyedele, Awodeyi Akinsehinwa Akinola Colinus, Olubukola Olarogba Okunola Adetula, Dr Abraham Olusegun Michael, Dr Nathaniel Olumuyiwa Adojutelegan, and Olajumoke Olubusola Anifowoshe. Ondo APC primary election and choice of flag-bearer APC approves direct primaries for Lagos, Zamfara, Imo, others Deputy governor’s defection not a threat to APC in Ondo – Adelami