The Bayelsa West Progressive Forum has called on former governorship candidate in the state, Moses Siasia to contest for the Bayelsa West Senatorial District bye-election. The seats of Bayelsa Central and Bayelsa West Senatorial Districts became vacant, following the election of their occupants as governor and deputy governor of the State. The governor, Sen. Diri Douye represented Bayelsa Central while his deputy, Sen. Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo represented Bayelsa West. The forum also advised the good people of Sagbama and Ekeremor LGA to make guided and far reaching futuristic decisions as to who they give their support to in the forthcoming bye-election. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The convener, Dr. Ebikabowei Akpos said the forum worried over the alarming high level of street begging, underdevelopment, backwardness, economic retrogression and high level of poverty suffered by the senatorial district. “Our Senatorial District is arguably one of the most backward in terms of concrete infrastructural and human capital development despite the myriads of political appointees and elected representatives that we have produced over the years. There is no proper healthcare system, the hospitals are in a deplorable state with little or no facilities on ground culminating to high rates of fatalities especially infant mortality,” he claimed. Burdened by all these concerns, the Forum said it believes it is time for the senatorial district to support a young and successful entrepreneur. “A young visionary leader with global exposure, dynamic and intelligent, a trustworthy Bayelsan committed to deliver on good governance and people upliftment. His antecedents speak volumes, a staunch believer in human capacity development, through which thousands of lives have been impacted and many more are still benefitting from his numerous programmes,” he added. Siasia is the current chairman of the Nigerian Young Professionals Forum (NYPF).