The Northern Governors Forum (NGF) has called the death of the former Group Managing Director of Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Maikanti Baru, a big loss to the nation. The Chairman of the Forum and Governor of Plateau, Simon Lalong, in a condolence said, “The late Maikanti Baru was a thorough bred professional, who distinguished himself in his career where he contributed immensely to the growth and development of the oil and gas industry. “He championed the implementation of reforms that left the sector more responsive to the energy needs of Nigerians, especially as it relates to the supply and appropriate pricing of petroleum products,’’ he said. “Exemplary” Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Meanwhile the present GMD of the corporation, Mr Mele Kyari confirmed the death on his twitter handle @MKKyari. He twitted that his predecessor died last night. Kyari described Baru as a brother, friend and mentor. “My brother, my friend and my mentor, Dr Maikanti Kachalla Baru, immediate past GMD of NNPC died late last night. He was of exemplary character and disposition. May Allah forgive him and have mercy upon him” Kyari twitted. Baru was appointed NNPC GMD by President Muhammadu Buhari in July 2016. He handed over to the current GMD Kyari in 2019 on retirement after clocking 60 years. Baru was born in July 1959 in Misau local government area of Bauchi state. He attended Federal Government College, Jos for his secondary education and graduated in 1978. In 1982 he obtained his Bachelor’s Degree in Engineering from Ahmadu Bello University. Baru has a doctorate in Computer Aided Engineering from the University of Sussex in the United Kingdom. He was the 18th GMD of NNPC. -Buhari mourns Baru- President Muhammadu Buhari has condoled with family, friends and professional colleagues of former Group Managing Director of Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Dr Maikanti Baru, who died on Friday night. A statement issued by Special Adviser to the President (Media & Publicity), Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Saturday, said the president also commiserated with government and people of Bauchi State, as well as the management and staff of NNPC over the passing of the former GMD, “who worked very hard to initiate reforms in virtually all departments of the of the corporation, bringing it up to speed with global trends and best practices.” Buhari acknowledged Baru’s contributions to “ensuring stability in the oil sector in Nigeria, with a more guaranteed supply and predictable price regime that weakened unscrupulous parallel marketers, especially during festive seasons.” He therefore prayed that the almighty God will receive the soul of the departed, grant eternal rest, and comfort all who mourn him. Similarly, the governor of Borno state, Prof. Babagana Zulum expressed deepest condolences to the family of the former NNPC boss. He said “It’s so sad that my great mentor is gone so soon. “I pray that the family finds the love and strength needed to forge ahead in his huge absence. My deepest sympathies to you all” he added. Our books are clean, says outgoing NNPC GMD Baru I’m willing to do more for Nigeria – Outgoing NNPC boss OPEC, others commend Buhari for appointing Kyari NNPC GMD