The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) says those who were not properly kitted at the burial of Abba Kyari, the late chief of staff to the president, tested negative to COVID-19. Dr Mohammed Kawu, Acting Secretary, FCT Health and Human Services Secretariat, made this known in a statement in Abuja on Sunday. Kawu explained that they have also completed the mandatory 14 days isolation and have been reunited with their families. The remains of  Kyari, the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, was laid to rest at the Muslim section of the Gudu Cemetery, Abuja on 17th April. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The funeral attracted criticism as most of the attendees were not properly kitted and social distancing was not observed during the event. Consequently, a human rights organisation, Kingdom Human Rights Foundation, threatened a “public interest litigation” if people who attended Kyari’s funeral are not quarantined on account of crowding and poor social distancing. The NGO also said it will institute a public interest litigation if the Kyari family fail to identify and quarantine those who attended the burial. In a statement by the Executive Director, Kingdom Okere, on Saturday, the NGO said the large turnout for the burial in Abuja violated social distancing and other guidelines set out by the federal government to contain the spread of the novel Coronavirus disease. Key government functionaries who attended the burial were ordered to stay away from Aso Villa by the presidency. Prominent persons in attendance included the Secretary to Government of the Federation and Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha; National Coordinator of the PTF on COVID-19, Dr Sani Aliyu; former Governor of Borno State, Senator Kashim Shettima; and Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika. Others were the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mele Kyari; Minister of Communications, Isa Pantami; Buhari’s spokesman, Garba Shehu and the Permanent Secretary of the State House, Tijjani ldris Umar, among others.  Apprehension in Abuja as pall bearer dumps COVID-19 PPE used at Abba Kyari's burial PHOTOS: Abba Kyari buried in Abuja Abba Kyari buried in Abuja