In a bid to observe precautionary measures against the spread of COVID-19, most people have resorted to using handmade fabric face mask to stay safe. In turn, fortune has smiled on tailors who produce these face masks. An event that appears to be a tragedy to one, might reveal the seeds of unlimited opportunities to another. Tailors, many of whom once depended solely on customers’ request to render services, now boldly produce face masks in hundreds of thousands to meet the overly increasing demand of the market. While individuals from different walks of life lament over the sudden harsh economic downturn, which has led them to cut down expenses to afford basic needs of life, the case is not the same for tailors, who make brisk business from the production of face mask. Suleiman Dauda, a tailor with over four staff, has expressed overwhelming joy over the fortune he has made from the production of face mask. He agreed that business is really good. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here  “With the high demand for face mask, I sell hundreds of face masks every day. In fact, I had to restructure my boys from just staying idle in my tailoring shop to effectively selling the face mask at strategic locations. Each face mask costs N150. In the morning, I give each of my boys hundred face masks to sell. At the end of the day, only few returns back. In most cases all are sold. “I don’t produce face mask on daily basis. I and my boys use three days at most to produce the quantity of face mask needed for the entire week. In total, not less than 500 pieces are sold per week. Business is really good. And in as much as I want to see the end of the pandemic, I pray to continually make such sales because it is rewarding and fulfilling to make profit after working hard. Mama Ejima, a tailor who employed her children as staff in her tailoring shop, said that the pandemic has made them switch from sewing customers’ clothes to sewing fabric face mask. She added that the reason for the switch was because people do not see the need for sewing new clothes during the lockdown; food and safety remains number one for people. “What my eyes have seen, my mouth cannot tell it all. I remember times when I don’t have much work in my shop, I only get paid after I conclude sewing clothes for my customers, but today, the story is not the same. I can say that one man’s meat is another man’s poison, as with the coronavirus we are producing more. “Each of my face mask is N200, the price is so because we use quality material to produce them. We don’t go out to sell, people come here to buy and every day we sew more than two dozens and we make sales based on the number of customers we have in a day.” Tolu Akinbode, 38-year-old tailor, who has been sewing for eight years, said “Prior to the period, we had less patronage because the month of May is not the peak period for tailors. However, as a result of this coronavirus, we have been able to constantly produce and sell face masks to people at a cheaper price. Even some children from the street come here to demand for face mask to sell, and at the end of each day, I pay them based on agreed percentage. “We sell face mask for N100, N150 or N200. When the pandemic started, only one boy volunteered to sell the face mask, but after five days two more boys showed up. Each of them is given face masks worth N3000 per day which amounts to a total estimated income of N9000 per day and turns over to N50 000 per week, because not all face masks are sold sometimes. “We are selling more and making cool cash. The saying that ‘the face of your greatest enemy might be the face of my finest friend’ is a fact. I didn’t say this because we are happy about the situation but I pray God heals our world and restores life back to normal.”  Nigerian tailors are hand-making PPE to help fight coronavirus Wearing of face mask now compulsory in Oyo–Gov. Makinde COVID-19: Sanwo-Olu kicks off ‘MaskUpLagos’ campaign