The Ogun State House of Assembly has summoned the Commissioner for Health, Dr Tomi Coker, and his colleague for Special Duties, Dr Femi Ogunbanwo, to appear before it tomorrow on management of the coronavirus scourge in the state. The Speaker, Olakunle Oluomo, said yesterday that the two Commissioners should appear to brief the House on efforts of the state government so far in reducing the spread of the virus. The summon followed a motion moved by the Majority Leader, Yusuf Sherif, during plenary session yesterday and seconded by Adegoke Adeyanju, who is the Chairman, House Committee on Health. Oluomo explained that the Commissioners would also explain to the House how the palliatives the state government gave out to cushion the effects of the lockdown occasioned by the pandemic were distributed. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He stressed that the House required more information on the activities of the state government concerning COVID -19, hence the need for the summons. Adeyanju had earlier lauded Governor Dapo Abiodun “for the job done so far to curtail the spread of the pandemic in the state.” He explained that the state had recorded 127 confirmed cases of COVID-19, 74 active cases, 48 discharged and five deaths. Also during plenary, the Speaker read the governor’s letter requesting the extension of the 20 local government transition committees’ tenure for another three months. According to the letter, dated April 13, 2020, the tenure of the present local government transition committee expired on April 17. “Considering the fact that local government elections have not been scheduled due to prevailing circumstances, it has become expedient to request the extension of the tenure of the committees,” the governor stated.  LP chair, students body ask Ogun Speaker to go for test Protest as Ogun Assembly screens Commissioner — Nominees Ogun APC tackles Osoba’s loyalists, as Assembly confirms 17 commissioners