Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has directed that all buses operating within the state must not load beyond 60 per cent of their full capacity, with effect from May 4, 2020. This, Sanwo- Olu explained, meant that a bus that takes 10 people at full capacity must not take more than six persons at any point in time. Speaking on Wednesday evening while issuing the modality to ease the COVID-19 lockdown in the state, the governor also said that from next week, passengers would not be allowed to stand in the state’s Bus Rapid Transport (BRT).   He also mentioned that all air-conditioning systems in public transport systems must be switched off. The governor further mandated all public transport operators, including drivers and conductors, to always wear face masks and hand gloves while in transit and dispose of same appropriately. He explained that the capacity of the public transportation system was being strengthened to reduce the risk of contracting the virus. All commuters, according to him, were also mandated to wear face masks at all times, clean their palms with alcohol-based sanitizer and wash their hands with soap and running water before and after every trip. The transport operators/companies are also expected to sanitize their vehicles, parks and garages regularly and continuously, at least, before and after every trip, as well as have at the entrance of their respective parks hand washing equipment with running water and temperature readers to test every passenger before boarding. Similarly, Sanwo-Olu ordered that commercial tricycles operating in unrestricted areas must not carry more than two passengers per trip and must ensure appropriate social distancing  between passengers. He directed that vehicles carrying food and agricultural produce into Lagos from any part of the country and exiting the state must not have more than seven passengers on board. “We are compelled to issue this directive because we have in recent weeks seen attempts to conceal people in trucks and other vehicles carrying essential items, with the aim of sneaking them into or out of the state,” he said.  Sanwo-Olu orders compulsory use of mask, cuts bus capacity in Lagos Traffic: Lagos govt launches new boats, begins commercial water transportation COVID-19: Lagos issues modalities for relaxing lockdown