Hundreds of bank customers, who besieged the banks’ branches in Ogun State on Wednesday for financial transactions, were frustrated as services remained slow in most cities in the state. Our correspondent’s visits to banks at Asero, Panseke, Ibara and Oke – Ilewo in Abeokuta yesterday showed that thousands of customers besieged the banks as early as 7am for business. The customers, however, defied the physical distancing order of the government as many of them struggled to gain entrance into the banking hall. A similar scenario played out at the Automated Teller Machine (ATMs) points where customers struggled to withdraw cash. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Daily Trust reports that in the banking hall, however, authorities of the commercial banks enforced social distancing and mandatory use of facial masks. A number of the banks, our correspondent observed, operated between 9am and 3pm. At the United Bank Africa (UBA) branch at Ita Eko, the state capital, it was observed that customers were called into banking hall five persons at a time as a way of maintaining social distancing. A banker at First City Monument Bank (FCMB) in Ijebu – Ode told Daily Trust that the bank allowed ten customers at a time into the banking hall. Reports from Sagamu, Sango – Ota, Ilaro reflected that a similar scenario played out across the state. Some customers who spoke with our correspondent expressed frustrations over their inability to conduct meaningful transactions. A customer in Abeokuta, Timothy Olufemi said “I have been here since 7am and this is 1pm, I have not had access into the banking hall due to the selection of customers. It’s five people at a time. I was here on Monday and I was unable to do anything. “It is frustrating. And I hope the management of the bank devises a means to speed up transaction or else I may be forced to close my account”, he lamented. Covid-19: Customers hurry for last-minute transactions Lockdown relaxation: Nigerians storm banks, markets, violate physical distancing order Customers besiege banks in Abuja, Lagos as lockdown eases