Recovery in the air transportation sector after the COVID-19 crisis may slow down the nation’s economic recovery, Chief Executive Officer of Financial Derivatives Company (FDC), Mr. Bismarck Rewane has observed. Rewane, a member of the President’s Economic Team also opposed the planned national carrier by the federal government, saying it’s not the way to go. According to him, Nigeria is facing multidimensional poverty with per capital income decreasing. He spoke as one of the panelists at the second series of Aelex Aviation webinar on “Flying into Turbulent Skies, Safely Navigating COVID-19 Headwinds – Survival Strategies for Nigerian Aviation”. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Rewane said aviation in Nigeria suffered a great setback from the impact of COVID-19 after the sector recorded significant growth in passenger traffic. He noted that the sector recorded a 20 percent growth in 2018, 13 percent in 2019 but added that the growth recorded in recent times was far better than when it was two per cent. But the COVID-19 crisis and the subsequent shutdown of airspace worsened the sector, noting that many airlines may not survive the crisis. While the federal government has invested energy in establishing a national carrier after the demise of the Nigeria Airways almost 15 years ago, the financial analyst urged the government to perish the idea, noting that the industry is under pressure and there is limited resources available to government. Instead, he said government should invest into building aviation infrastructure that would aid the survival of private airlines. He gave instances of some government-owned airlines like the South African Airways, Avianca, Sabena, Swiss Air, which he noted have suffered near collapse. He stressed that aviation is critical to economic recovery as it supports the growth in gross domestic product (GDP). Rewane called for “investor-friendly” aviation policies even as he urged the government to forget about bilateral air service agreement (BASA), while AMCON should ensure airlines get back to life. He said: “Without government’s support, they cannot get back to life. Many airlines will struggle to stay afloat, some will not survive. Investment in infrastructure and airport concessioning are prerequisites for lower average costs and higher profitability.” Also, former MD of the defunct Virgin Nigeria, Capt. Dapo Olumide also supported Rewane in opposing the national carrier, saying building of infrastructures should be the priority. He also advocated for the fast-tracking of airport concession, saying, “The only way an airport is going to survive in Nigeria is either privatisation or concessioning.” But former spokesman of the defunct Nigeria Airways, Mr. Chris Aligbe supported the establishment of the national carrier with little government’s equity. Other participants at the webinar were the Executive Director of Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), Aminu Ismail; Chief Operating Officer of Ibom Air, George Ureisi; and Capt. Dapo Olumide Nigeria’s economy not under recession threat – Experts NCAA revenues shrink by 90 percent Job cuts loom as COVID-19 takes toll on private sector