Activities at the cargo terminal of Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) remained stalled yesterday were disrupted as the lingering faceoff between licensed Customs agents and ground handling companies over demurrage charge on cargoes worsened. The controversy stemmed from the uncleared cargoes at the warehouses of the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) Plc and the Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) PLC during the lockdown occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic. The agents under the aegis of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) opposed the mandatory payment of demurrage ordered by the managements of two ground- handling companies. Daily Trust reports that members of the ANLCA had staged a protest at the cargo terminal of MMIA last week following the ease of six-week lockdown in the state. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here ANLCA Secretary, Mr. Emmanuel Njoku, said the insistence of the two companies for payment of demurrage was a violation of subsisting government’s directives on the lockdown of Lagos, Ogun and Abuja. He explained that when its members returned to work on May 4, 2020, following the lift on the lockdown, NAHCO and SAHCO managements insisted that the agents must pay demurrage for shipments affected by the lockdown. However in his reaction, the Managing Director of SAHCO, Mr. Basil Agboarumi insisted that the ground handlers would not give waivers to the customs agents. He said unlike the maritime sector where the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) absorbed some waivers by giving credit notes to terminal operators, the reverse was the case in aviation industry. According to him, FAAN and NCAA did not give any waiver for the ground handlers during the period. NAHCO’s Head, Corporate Communication, Samuel Akinrinmade, said the 100percent waiver requested by the agents was based on the premise that an agency of government, Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) is taking on the financial burden of the 100 percent waiver at the seaports and issuing credit notes to Port Terminal Operators. COVID 19: ANCLA raises concern over post-pandemic port charges hike DEMURRAGE WAIVER: NPA weilds big harmer on terminal Operators over refusal to grant waiver 48-hour clearance at ports: Mirage or reality?