A fresh legal battle is looming over the protracted leadership tussle in Ogun State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) following the inauguration of the new exco by a faction loyal to the former gubernatorial candidate, Senator Buruji Kashamu. Daily Trust recalls that in 2016, Kashamu’s group held parallel congresses and went ahead to object the famous court judgment backing the then Bayo Dayo-led executive whose tenure terminated this month. But the National Working Committee (NWC) failed to recognise the Kashamu-led PDP, and instead backed former House of Representatives member Hon Ladi Adebutu’s faction, a development which haunted the party during 2019 elections. Relying on the court that validated the Dayo-led exco, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) accepted the candidates’ list submitted for the 2019 elections by Kashamu’s group against the list submitted by the Uche Secondus-led NWC. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here In a replay of the 2016 scenario, Kashamu’s faction last Friday snubbed the NWC’s directive by conducting congresses and inaugurating party executives in the state. The disputed exco members are expected to resume duty today. Daily Trust reports that Kashamu had equally ambushed the NWC by filing a suit before a Federal High Court sitting in Abeokuta, seeking validation of the new exco. In another twist, the NWC rejected Kashamu faction’s congresses, citing an interim order of Justice Inyang Ewko of a Federal Court sitting in Abuja. In a statement by the National Chairman Prince Uche Secondus and the National Secretary Senator Umaru Tsauri, the PDP leadership on Saturday said it rejected the congress of the Kashamu faction in obedience to an interim order of a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja that ordered all parties to maintain status quo until the substantive suit is determined. To this end, the PDP hinted that it had not conducted any congress – ward, local government or state – in Ogun State. “It is the sole responsibility of NEC/NWC of the party to conduct congresses for the elections of party leaders at all levels of the party, and no state organ or individual has such power except as may be expressly donated by the NEC/NWC and same has not been exercised with regards to Ogun State,” it said. But the newly installed State Chairman of Kashamu’s faction, Samson Bamgbose, yesterday fired back at the NWC, saying the congresses were “validly and legally conducted.” “The NWC of the PDP has again shown its hands in the enduring struggle in the Ogun State chapter of the PDP between internal democracy and autocracy,” he said in a statement. Twist as battle for Ogun PDP soul thickens Crack in Kashamu’s PDP faction, as scribe, others back NWC INEC writes PDP, accepts Kashamu’s candidates’ list