China on Monday berated New Zealand for its support for Taiwan’s participation at the World Health Organisation (WHO). China, however, said the country should “stop making wrong statements” on the issue to avoid damaging bilateral ties. Taiwan, with the strong support of the U.S., has stepped up its lobbying to be allowed to take part as an observer at coming week’s World Health Assembly (WHA), the WHO’s decision-making body, to China’s anger. Taiwan is excluded from the WHO due to the objections of China, which views the island as one of its provinces. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Taiwan noted that this has created a dangerous gap in the coronavirus fight, and has accused the WHO of bending to Chinese pressure. New Zealand’s finance and foreign ministers recently backed a role for the Taiwan at the WHO. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian, speaking at a daily news conference in Beijing, said New Zealand’s comments were a severe violation of the “one China” principle, which states that Taiwan is part of China. “We express our strong dissatisfaction with the statements and resolutely oppose it, and we have already made stern representations with New Zealand. “The one China principle is the political foundation of China and New Zealand’s relationship. “China urges New Zealand to strictly abide by the ‘one China principle’ and immediately stop making wrong statements on Taiwan, to avoid damaging our bilateral relationship,” Zhao said. China has denounced Taiwan’s WHO attempts as a political stunt aimed at promoting the island’s formal independence, and said it would fail in its efforts. In Taipei, Taiwan Foreign Minister Joseph Wu told parliament that in order to be able to break through China’s influence on the body there needed to be “even stronger international lung power”. “This year’s international atmosphere is relatively beneficial for Taiwan’s participation, and so the pressure on the WHO secretariat and China is greater and greater,” Wu said. Taiwan attended the WHA as an observer from 2009 to 2016 when Taipei-Beijing relations were warmer. China blocked further participation after the election of Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen, whom China views as a separatist, an accusation she rejects. China said it has the right to represent Taiwan on the international stage, adding that Taipei has been provided with all the help and information it needs during the pandemic, something Taiwan disputes. Taiwan has reported only 440 coronavirus cases and seven deaths, thanks to early and effective disease prevention and control work. (Reuters/NAN) China pushes Taiwan out of World Health Assembly To keep China one To keep China one