The Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) has asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), political parties, Civil Society Organisations (CSO) and the media to launch a campaign on COVID-19-friendly approach ahead of the forthcoming governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states. IPAC, in a statement by its National Chairman, Dr. Leonard Nzenwa, who doubles as the Chairman of the African Action Congress (AAC), said the electorate in the villages who were yet to know the preventive measures for COVID-19 must be educated on the use of face masks, adherence to personal hygiene, social distancing, among others, ahead of the polls. The council also urged political parties and their candidates to imbibe issues-based campaigns and eschew divisive politics that had threatened the nation’s political process. IPAC said in the statement, “It will certainly affect Nigeria’s vibrant political campaigns. Political parties and their candidates will face the reality and adopt COVID-19-friendly approach to electoral campaigns. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “Since election is the beauty of democracy and power resides with the people, it becomes necessary for Governors of Edo and Ondo states to relax restriction on movement to enable the people to carry out their civic responsibilities and elect governors of their choice.” IPAC also backed INEC’s decision to experiment e-voting in 2021 in major elections, describing it as a giant step forward in the nation’s political process. The body of all registered political parties in the country explained that the COVID-19 scourge had altered the nation’s political horizon with its health, social and financial implications, making the use of electronic voting imperative. Ondo Poll: Inter-party council condemns ''unjust exclusion'' of Candidates by INEC Now That 2019 Time Table is Out IPAC appeals to candidates, parties to accept defeat