Industrialists have expressed mixed reactions over the extension of the partial lockdown of the country meant to stem the spread of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). At the wake of COVID-19, President Muhammadu Buhari declared a total lockdown of Abuja, Lagos and Ogun States. Two weeks ago, the President announced a partial lifting of the lockdown and declared a nationwide 8 pm to 6 am curfew to further flatten the curve of COVID-19. The first phase of the partial lockdown expired yesterday and has been extended, a development industrialists described as inevitable. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The President of the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI), Prince Adetokunbo Kayode, told Daily Trust that that the extension of the partial lockdown was inevitable considering that confirmed coronavirus cases and deaths have been spiking since the partial lifting of the lockdown. Prince Kayode said Nigeria had seen about 4,000 new cases of COVID-19 and more deaths since the lockdown was lifted. The industrialist identified one of the areas for improved concentration by government in the COVID-19 pandemic fight as adequate deployment of technology to track and test people across the country. He advocated the need to get more technical people involved in the management of the crisis, noting that there are competent experts in technology locally that could be involved in the fight and help using technology to finding lasting cure for the scourge. The ACCI President expressed serious concern that COVID-19 may adversely affect Nigeria and put the economy into trouble if technology is not deplored to check the spread. In his remarks, Acting Director General of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Ambrose Oruche, called on federal and state governments to extend working hours during the day and allow factory workers to work at night even during the extended partial lockdown in order to keep the economy going. Oruche said the extension of the partial lockdown was a good decision because an extension of the lockdown would have been devastating for the economy. He canvassed: “What we expect in the next two weeks is for transport to resume so that people can move. We may need one or two things that require physical presence in Abuja or Port Harcourt to consummate.” The industrialist pleaded for some concessions to be made for critical workers in the real sector and the manufacturing sector of the economy. In his remarks, President of the National Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME), Prince Degun Agboade, said the extended partial lockdown was demoralizing. He lamented:  “Continuing in the Phase one rules of easing the lockdown is burdensome and killing and we still have another two weeks, I don’t know what will happen. So far, a lot of MSMEs are not showing up were they use to be, to add two weeks again is demoralizing. “Even those going out to their shops/offices, there is not much sales, money is not going round. I know government is doing all to keep us safe but there should be balance”, the industrialist added. As COVID-19 lockdown ends, pressure mounts on Buhari to relax restrictions COVID-19: Experts back Buhari on lockdown extension COVID-19: Buhari allows 6am-8pm movements in states