Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has slated a number of programmes, including commissioning of projects, to commemorate his one year in office on May 29, 2020. The state’s Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, in a statement, he issued on Sunday, disclosed that the week-long ceremony would begin with an address by Governor Sanwo-Olu, who would then embark on the virtual and on-site commissioning of housing, education, transportation and road projects in fulfilment of his promises to renew infrastructure in critical sectors of the economy. According to the statement, the governor would visit Ikorodu to commission the 360-unit Lagos Homes Igbogbo Baiyeku IIB Estate, and later launch the Courtland Villas at Femi Okunnu Estate, Lekki. In the education sector, Gov Sanwo-Olu will conduct virtual commissioning of completed classroom blocks at Maya Secondary School, Ikorodu; Eva Adelaja Junior School, Bariga and Saviour Primary School, Ifako-Ijaiye, among others. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The virtual commissioning of completed works like the Concrete Jetty in Baiyeku, Ikorodu; the Aradagun-Ajido-Epeme Road in Badagry; and the Maryland Signalisation Project also form part of the governor’s itinerary to commemorate his one year in office. Stressing that the anniversary commemorative events were instructively low-key to reflect the realities and challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, Omotoso emphasized this was not a time to engage in any elaborate celebration. “The governor considers it essential to render an account of his service to Lagosians since he was voted into office a year ago. In the next few days, the anniversary programmes will begin at the J. J. T Park in Alausa, with press briefings by members of the Executive Council. The Honourable Commissioners and Special Advisers will present their scorecards in tandem with the six pillars of the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda,” “At the sessions, EXCO members will address journalists accredited to cover the daily briefings scheduled to run from Wednesday, May 27 to June 3, 2020, with two sessions daily, starting from 10am and 1pm respectively. Three special publications highlighting the achievements of the Sanwo-Olu administration, as well as testimonies of beneficiaries of various initiatives of the government are slated for presentation to the public by Mr Governor and his Deputy, Dr Obafemi Kadri Hamzat, on May 29,” he said. The Commissioner assured that Governor Sanwo-Olu remained focused on fulfilling his campaign promises to Lagosians and was determined to accomplish set targets despite the temporary setback occasioned by the economic challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Specifically, the COVID-19 pandemic has proven to be an interesting alteration to our ways of life, and also provided Lagosians with the opportunity to confirm the enormous capacity of the Babaijde Sanwo-Olu administration to lead a people-centred government,” he added.  Lagos rice mill to begin operation this year — Sanwo-Olu ‘10,000 Lagosians to get free feeding daily’ Lagos community appeals to Sanwo-Olu on demolished estates