Oyo State governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde, has announced that the state was one of the beneficiaries of the African Development Bank (AfDB) agro-processing zone projects to improve agribusiness in the state. He said the development would be leveraged upon by the state to fulfil local demand of agricultural produce. The governor gave this hint during an on-the-spot inspection tour of the Akufo Farm Settlement as well as the inspection of Kartlos Farms Limited, located inside the Akufo Farm settlement in the state. He said: “Oyo State has also been designated as one of the beneficiaries of the African Development Bank agro-processing zone projects. So, we will first look at how we can fulfil the local demand. After that, we will also look at processing for export.So, I am super-excited about the possibilities in this place.” Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The Governor said that his administration was working assiduously  to make commercial agriculture the backbone of the state’s economy by upgrading some farm settlements in the state to Agricultural Estates. He clarified: “Agriculture is where we think we have comparative advantage and we are looking at agro-processing to expand our economy. This place used to be a farm settlement but we are upgrading it to a farm estate. “People are already there, so we came to find out, first hand, what is really going on here and how things can be done meaningfully in a way that it can drive the economic expansion agenda of our government.” Governor Makinde stated that the state government was ready to partner private sector to expand the economy of the state in line with one of the four cardinal points of his government’s service agenda. He also explained that his administration would collaborate with other stakeholders to harness the benefits of the agric sector for the local market and export. According to him,  a private farm has been using the facility in Akufo Farm Settlement to produce tomato and pepper through a greenhouse farming approach.  10,000 Kogi farmers to benefit from World Bank’s APPEAL project AfDB identifies 14 sites for Agro-Industrial Processing Zones in Nigeria FG to harvest from $8trn agrifood industry