Some members of the Bauchi State House of Assembly have called on the State government to review its COVID-19 order by lifting the ban on Friday prayers and Church services across the State. The lawmakers made this known on Wednesday during the plenary of the House in Bauchi after a motion under matters of urgent public importance was moved by Hon. Tijjani Muhammad Aliyu (Azare/Madangala) on the spread of COVID-19 in the State. Governor of the State, Bala Mohammed, had on May 10 declared a total lockdown of Katagum, Giade and Zaki local government areas following reports of  deaths and community transmission which has increased the positive cases of COVID-19 in the State. This came after the suspension of Friday prayers and Church services on April 23 as part of measures to control the spread of coronavirus in the State. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here While contributing, Hon. Dan’umma Bello (Giade Constituency) said there was the need to go spiritual to end COVID-19 and the best way to do that was to allow people to observe Juma’ah prayers and church services. He suggested that, since people are allowed to go to market for three days per week, people should equally be allowed to go and pray Juma’at prayers on Fridays and church service on Sunday. In his contributions, Hon Yusuf Inuwa Dadiye (Ganjuwa West) reminded the members that they will account all their deeds and actions on the Day of Judgment. He condemned the banning of Juma’ah prayers and church services in the state, saying; “everyday our constituents are calling us to inquire whether they can go to Juma’ah mosques and churches. Hon. Dadiye, who quoted some verses of the Holy Qur’an on the necessity and sacrosanct of Juma’ah prayer to all Muslims, called on the members of the Assembly to call for opening of Juma’ah mosques on Fridays and churches on Sundays “because the solution to COVID-19 is prayers”. On his part, Hon. Baballe Abubakar Dambam (Dambam/Jalam/Dagauda) said his constituents were of the view that the solution to COVID-19 was abandoned by closing Juma’ah mosques where the solution resides. Hon. Baballe, therefore, called on the government to open Juma’ah mosques with strict guidelines, including uniform time for all Juma’ah prayers and duration of 15 to 20 minutes for all prayers. Hon. Musa Wakili Nakwada (Bogoro Constituency) said that there was no required synergy between the legislative arm and executive arm in fighting the disease in Bauchi State. He added that there was no required representation of members of the State Assembly in most of the Committees set up by the government on COVID-19. However, Hon. Abdulkadir Umar Dewu (Kirfi Constituency) explained that all decisions taken by the government against the novel coronavirus were taken in full consultations with stakeholders which comprised religious leaders. According to Hon. Dewu, the decisions of the government were meant to protect the people based on the advice of professionals and convention of the stakeholders and leaders across the country. He said the lockdown of Bauchi State had human face compared to other states where one can’t even go to mosque for daily prayers. He, therefore, advised that the leadership of the Assembly should meet the executive arm to brainstorm on the matter so that lives of people will not be risked. Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Abubakar Y Suleiman, said the House had adopted the suggestions and opinions of members and ordered that all the resolutions be communicated to the executive arm for consideration. COVID-19: Bauchi ban Friday prayers, church service, Ramadan tafsir Nigeria’s Covid-19 cases rise to 30 Governor Mohammed bans Almajiris in Bauchi