A High Court sitting in Dutse, Jigawa State, has directed the House of Assembly to reinstate Sani Isyaku Abubakar, the Member representing Gumel Constituency. The court granted an exparte motion in favour of the lawmaker following a motion moved by his Counsel, Barr. Baffa Alasan, seeking the nullification of the suspension of the member by the assembly. Other parties in the suit are the speaker of the assembly, the clerk and the assembly as a whole. It would be recalled that the Speaker, Idris Garba, had in March, 2020, announced the suspension of the member for allegedly conniving with some politicians and political thugs to distract the convoy of the state Governor, Badaru Abubakar, while he was in Hadejia Local Government Area for an official engagement. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here According to the court order, a copy obtained by Daily Trust, the presiding Judge, Ahmed Isa Gumel, ordered that all parties to the suit should restore the applicant’s rights and privileges as a member pending the hearing and final determination of the motion on notice for interlocutory injunction. The order read in part: “The applicant’s exparte motion moved by his counsel brought pursuant to Order 38 Rule 1 & 2 and Order 39 of the Jigawa State High Court (Civil Procedure) Rules-2008 and under the inherent jurisdiction of this honourable court is hereby granted. “That the respondents are hereby restrained whatsoever and however called from further interfering, tampering or doing anything inimical to the rights and privileges of the applicant as Member representing Gumel Constituency in the Jigawa State House of Assembly pending the hearing and final determination of the motion on notice for interlocutory injunction.” The matter was adjourned to June 9, 2020. Jigawa assembly suspends two members for truncating investigation Court restrains NASS, others from ‘interfering’ in Bauchi assembly crisis Mijinyawa: From LG Chairman to controversial Adamawa Speaker