The Nasrul Lahi-L-Fatih Society, popularly known as NASFAT, says thousands of residents in Lagos State benefited from its ‘Feed a Mouth’ project that put smiles on the faces of the needy in the society during the last Eid-el-Fitr celebration. The society, in a statement it issued on Tuesday, said it reached out through the programme to many vulnerable persons across the 22 zones it operates, with 6,500 persons in 130 outlets benefiting. NASFAT said its officials moved from one part of Lagos to another feeding the poor and the vulnerable on Sallah day. The organisation also stated that prior to the feeding programme it disbursed N60.9 million in cash and food items to vulnerable persons in the society as palliative measure to mitigate the effects of the lockdown and movement restrictions occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic ravaging the country. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The statement said that during the programme, beneficiaries, comprising men and women, the young and old, were excited as they thronged Oluwole Mosque in Ogba, Lagos State, which was one of the designated venues in Lagos, to receive the packs of food and drink. The distribution was said to have been carried out under strict adherence to the social distancing and nose-mask policy of the government. The statement quoted NASFAT’s Welfare Secretary, Alhaji AbdulRahman Olarinde, as saying the initiative was designed to cater for the less privileged. NASFAT’s National President, Alhaji Niyi Yusuf, was also quoted as expressing his profound and deep appreciation to all friends, donors, contributors and supporters of the COVID-19 Relief Fund. “With your support, thousands of households have been lifted out of poverty through cash donations and food items,” Yusuf said.  COVID-19: NASFAT spends N60.9m on vulnerable, feeds 6,500 on Sallah day NASFAT sensitises residents on proper use of face mask ‘How NASFAT utilizes Zakat to fight poverty’