Fitch Ratings, one of the global credit ratings agency, has projected that Nigeria’s foreign reserves would dip to an all-time low of $23.3 billion by year end as the COVID-19 pandemic-triggered shocks continue to take huge toll on the nation’s economy. This represents about $10.59 billion drop from the $33.89billion level the reserves stood as at May 5 this year. This is even as the rating agency adjusted its earlier GDP forecasts for the country, predicting that Nigeria’s economy will contract by three per cent in 2020, before recovering by three per cent growth in 2021. With crude oil exports remaining the primary source of the country’s foreign exchange earnings, the agency noted that the Nigerian government’s compliance with the OPEC and OPEC+ oil production cut deal recently would lead to deeper economic contraction, fiscal deficits and compound pressures on external finances as a result of the slump in oil prices. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Fitch Ratings further stated that the growing penchant of the fiscal authorities for concessional multilateral loans would ease near-term liquidity pressures, adding that even then the risk of a disruptive macroeconomic adjustment would persist in the months ahead. Noting that Nigeria’s foreign-currency reserves has dropped by $5bn in the past four months of the year despite only limited depreciation in the naira’s key exchange rates, Fitch stated that this reflected moves by the monetary authorities to tighten foreign-currency access. According to the agency, this has contained capital outflows temporarily, although the build-up of pent-up foreign-currency demand may increase the risk of a disruptive future exchange-rate adjustment. On the foreign reserves prospects, it stated: “We expect outflows to materialise later in the year, which, alongside a significant current-account deficit and continued CBN resistance to overhauling the exchange-rate framework, will drive a fall in international reserves from $38.6bn at end-2019 to $23.3bn at end-2020.” It further stated that the contraction in the country’s exports and remittance inflows meant the current account would remain in deficit, despite a sharp drop in imports, projecting that “the current account, which had been in surplus for much of the last 20 years, to record a deficit equivalent to 3.8 per cent of GDP in 2020 and 2.5 per cent in 2021.” The agency added that external liquidity pressures would be aggravated by outflows of foreign portfolio investment.  FG disagrees with Moody’s downgrading of Nigeria to B2 stable rating It’s not all rosy for trade, investment in 2013 Fitch ratings:  Nigeria’ economy stable but stagnant