The Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, has allowed christening of new babies, burial rites and other gatherings with a maximum of 15 attendees as part of measures to ease the lockdown, arising from the raging coronavirus disease, in the state. Abiodun, however, didn’t extend the assembly of 15 to religious activities, saying they remain banned until further notice. He said the gathering of 15 people must adhere strictly to social distancing and other precautionary measures. The governor, briefing newsmen in Abeokuta at the weekend, hinted that the phased and gradual ease of the lockdown announced by President Muhammadu Buhari would be effective in the state from May 9. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He disclosed that 40 per cent of public servants would resume for work on the days of lockdown relaxation allowed by government. “We, however, do not object to naming rites of newborns and burial rites of our deceased loved ones. But such gatherings must not be more than the prescribed 15, which include even the officiating priests and all attendees who must observe social distancing. “Thirty per cent of public servants are to resume for work on the days of relaxation of lockdown. The Head of Service will issue a circular providing details. As usual, all essential service personnel will continue to work notwithstanding the lockdown. “All public religious gatherings remain banned. All pubs, clubs, stadia, public pools, spars, gyms, salons, etc., and indeed, any assembly of more than 15 persons remain banned till further notice. However, restaurants may open on the approved days for take-out meals only,” he said. Warning that government would not tolerate any act of sabotage on inter-state travel by those on essential services, Abiodun said, “Vehicles on essential services should have five passengers, including the driver, who must show proof of their connection with the vehicle and service the vehicle provides.” He noted that mobile courts would be established to prosecute violators of measures associated with the lockdown, who would be made to pay fines or perform community service, or both. He appealed to transport operators to cooperate with government by carrying 50 per cent of their capacity. “Transporters are permitted to carry a maximum of half their capacity. Taxis are to carry three passengers with the driver, 14-seater buses are to carry seven passengers, tricycles two passengers and ‘okada’ one passenger each, with the rider. The drivers should wear face masks and encourage their passengers to do same. Failure will lead to the confiscation of the vehicle or motorcycle, “ the governor warned.  How COVID-19 halted burial ceremonies Lockdown: Ban on social, religious gatherings remain — Buhari COVID-19 Lockdown violation: Fear heightens over community transmission in states