The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has revealed that Kogi and Cross River states have the lowest figures of samples tested since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country in February, 2020. The two states are yet to record any confirmed case. This was contained in the May 18 situation report released by the NCDC on Tuesday. According to the report, Kogi submitted only one sample while Cross Rivers submitted seven. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Nigeria recorded its index case of the Covid-19 pandemic in February, 2020. Since the outbreak,  a total of 36,899 samples have been tested with 6,175 positive cases, 1,644 cases discharged and 191 fatalities recorded. Thirty-four states of the federation and Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory have been hit hard by the virus, with Lagos state having the highest figures of confirmed cases and fatalities. The NCDC had visited Kogi state in the first week of May, but the state claimed that the agency’s officials “fled” the state when they were asked to undergo tests for COVID-19. Following the NCDC’s visit, Kingsley Fanwo, Kogi commissioner for information issued a statement on May 8, saying that the team refused to be isolated or have their samples taken for tests. “It was drama today (May 8) at the Kogi State Government House as officials of the National Center for Disease Control sent to ascertain the COVID-19 status flee the state “The Officials said they were not ready to be tested for COVID-19 and went back to Abuja. “Today (May 8), the Governor showed the statesmanship in him once again by appreciating the support of the NCDC and defending the health interests of his people,” says Fanwo. Fanwo also claimed that the state had tested 111 persons for coronavirus (COVID-19). Fanwo, however, said that the tests were conducted on the persons without the supervision of officials from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The commissioner said that the testing kits procured by the state were used to conduct the tests and that those tested were picked randomly. “Kogi State got testing kits independently but followed NCDC guidelines. “One hundred and eleven COVID-19 rapid tests were conducted in Kogi State yesterday (May 11) and all results came out negative,” he had said in a statement released on May 12.