WAPIC Insurance has offered health workers a 15% discount on new policies taken up in 2020 to help cushion financial hardships associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. The new gesture by the risk underwriting company, came after it announced premium refunds to customers with active motor vehicle policies during the lockdown period. The rebate to health workers covers Personal Accident, Householder Insurance and Motor Insurance and is for the tenor of the policies. In line with regulation discounts do not apply on renewal. The company’s Managing Director, Mrs. Adeyinka Adekoya, commented: “This corporate gesture is in appreciation of the noble effort of our health workers, who are in the frontline of the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic.” Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Last week, the insurer announced a pioneering initiative costing millions of Naira in premium revenue that will give refunds to its motor insurance policy holders. The offer from the insurer ensures that customers with active policies are automatically credited with refunds based on the lockdown period. Since the outbreak of the pandemic in Nigeria, WAPIC Insurance has been at the forefront of Insurance sector contributions towards the fight against the Covid-19 virus. The company has contributed N40 million to the Federal Government’s Covid-19 response effort, and is  also one of the insurance companies underwriting free health cover for Nigeria’s 5,000 health workers. Adekoa said: “Most importantly the company is demonstrating its commitment to sustainable business practices by fighting the pandemic through its core underwriting products and services. “WAPIC Insurance is committed to rolling out more socially responsible and development focused initiatives using its capital, products and services during these challenging times”, the industry expert assured.  COVID-19: Leadway Assurance offers N5bn insurance cover for health workers Insurance firms provide N5bn cover for health workers Leadway Assurance refunds part premium to clients