The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Ekiti State Command, says it intercepted a commercial bus which allegedly sneaked into the state with some traders from Sokoto State in violation of the inter-state lockdown regulations put in place to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease. The traders were said to have pretended to be traders from Ilorin who came to Ekiti to sell onions. The NSCDC said the suspects were arrested at Afao-Ekiti on Wednesday night after they had travelled from Ilorin to Ekiti, through the bush paths, abandoning the main roads. The suspects  –  Tukur Abubakar, 27;  Jamilu Aliyu, 23; Kabiru Abdulahi, 19; Abdulsalam Bello, 21; Aliyu Salisu 20; and Ishyaku Haliru  –  have been handed over to the Ekiti State government for necessary action. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here In a release sent to newsmen yesterday, the Public Relations Officer (PRO), NSCDC Ekiti Command, Mr Tolu Afolabi, said luck ran out on the suspects when the Intelligence Unit of the Command traced them from Igbemo-Ekiti to Afao Ekiti, where they were alighting from the bus. The PRO noted that the driver was able to escape with the bus on sighting the armed NSCDC team, while the suspects were rounded up and detained at the Corps’ headquarters in Ado-Ekiti. The NSCDC Commandant, Ekiti Command, Mr Solomon Iyamu, frowned at the rate in which people were risking their lives, moving into the state from the other states of the federation through bush paths and dangerous routes. Iyamu said preliminary investigation showed that all the suspects were indigenes of Sokoto State, though some of them lived in Ilorin before moving to Ekiti State. The NSCDC Commandant appealed to Nigerians to stay safe during this period or stay away from Ekiti State as the Command was battle-ready to arrest and prosecute anyone found in the state illegally, especially during this lockdown period.  NSCDC deploys 500 personnel in Ekiti, Ogun to curb coronavirus spread Woman allegedly inflicts burns on housemaids with hot iron NSCDC arrests 57-yr-old man over N1.8m fraud