It is business as usual at most public places in Nguru, Yobe State, as people go about their day-to-day activities without taking the required precautions against the COVID-19 pandemic, Kanem Trust reports. Our correspondent, who went round the town, reports that residents attend to regular activities like markets, funeral ceremonies and wedding events, oblivious of the dangers around them. Yobe State has 13  COVID-19 positive cases, according to the latest figure released by the NCDC. At the town’s main market and motor park, our reporter observed people going about with their usual activities without regards to social distancing or use of face masks. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Similarly, it was observed that at funeral prayer gatherings, use face masks is very rare among people, while some are still engaged in hand shaking with each other. However, at the two health centres in the town, Kanem Trust observed strict adherence to the use of face masks while hand washing facilities and hand sanitisers were provided at the entrances. Some of the residents interviewed said they did not believe in the existence of the virus, adding that it was a product of western countries to deprive them from their cultural and religious activities. “Why should they declare curfew now when we are about to start night prayers? That means they don’t want us to pray in the night, so this is their target, “ Abba Carpenter said. “I’m not comfortable with masks because I’m not used to it. I believe wearing face mask will not stop the virus from reaching me going by the level of my interaction in different places as I’m always boarding trycle and interacting with people inside it,” Garba Sani, a trader Said. However, Kanem Trust reports that, the government had recently embarked on enlightenment campaign using health personnel, religious bodies, traditional rulers and civil society organisations. Some of the residents, in an interview, blamed health personnel and other officials for leaving people in the darkness about the danger of the disease. However, Alhaji Sani Umaru, a health personnel, insisted that they are doing their best. “In the past three months, all that we  have been doing is enlightenment campaign about the danger of COVID-19, especially in the outskirts of the town due to their low level of literacy. “Even yesterday we had a meeting with all the stakeholders on planning how to put more efforts,” he said. The Local Government Coordinator of  NCDC, Raphael Adorike, said they would soon start house-to-house visits to enlighten people on the virus. He said they would also go along with testing kits to test those suspected to have contracted the virus. “The worst part of it is that some people still don’t believe there is COVID-19, that is the most difficult thing we are facing, but we will not relent in our efforts.” Malam Musa Kallah, Chairman of Shari’a Committee, said he has been informing his congregation, during the annual  Ramadhan tafsir, on the dangers posed by the disease and urging them to strictly follow the preventive measures. “Presently we have a hand washer in front of my mosque and I tell my audience to maintain physical distance as we set a limit of numbers of persons that will sit inside the mosque. We also urged others to do the same in every mosque where tafsir is being conducted.”  What Nigerians must do to avoid COVID-19 spread as economy re-opens As COVID-19 cases jump to 81: Large gatherings persist in states Lockdown relaxation: Nigerians storm banks, markets, violate physical distancing order