Lumos Nigeria has received an emergency relief fund from All On to provide solar power to public healthcare facilities on the frontline of the Covid-19 pandemic in Sub-Saharan Africa. The solar-powered systems are being deployed to critical healthcare and emergency response centers across Nigeria to power basic necessities such as lighting, fans, vaccine fridge and laptops, ensuring that essential services can respond to the crisis and deliver urgent medical care. This was made possible through the grant from All On- an organization established to increase access to commercial energy in under-served and unserved off-grid energy markets in Nigeria. Speaking on the grant, Dr. Wiebe Boer, All On CEO said ‘The investee Lumos Nigeria was selected to be part of the Covid-19 Solar Relief Fund based on their immediate preparedness to respond with products, inventory, technical capabilities and their efficient nationwide delivery track record.” Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Also commenting on the grant, Adepeju Adebajo, CEO, Lumos Nigeria said, “Covid-19 is an unprecedented crisis, putting millions of lives at risk. Reliable, affordable and clean electricity is vital to running life-saving equipment in hospitals and training essential workers. The All-On fund enables us to react exceptionally quickly. Lumos has the products and the trained staff on the ground to install solar systems across Nigeria, which will allow key workers to test and treat patients with the virus and save lives.” Dr Anthony Iwala, the Social franchise Director, Society for Family Health, Nigeria, stated that “We are pleased to receive this very significant support from Lumos and All On. It is an exemplary intervention that will facilitate the success of the fight against the virus. COVID-19: Lumos donates solar system to power Lagos facility REA deploys solar power to COVID-19 isolation centres, others Why we completed 4 solar power plants for COVID-19 centres in 14 days – Ahmad