The Chief Imam of the Kubwa Federal Housing quarters juma’at mosque in Abuja, Malam Salihu Abubakar Zamfara, has been relieved of his duty for defying the ban on public gatherings. A statement signed by the Sarkin Bwari, Alhaji Muhammad Auwal Ijakoro, and made available to our reporter on Thursday, indicated that the Imam’s sack was sequel to a report of a committee earlier set up by the chief to investigate the said ban violation on Friday, March 27. It was gathered that two policemen accompanying the Police Area Commander and Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Kubwa, who went into the mosque’s premises to remind the Imam and his congregation about the ban, were attacked and injured by some angry worshipers, while one of their vehicles was damaged. The Sarkin Bwari also ordered the sacked Imam to handover the leadership of the mosque immediately to his deputy, Malam Abbas Sulaiman, pending the appointment of a substantive Imam. The chief also asked the Imam to vacate the property attached to the mosque, on, or before May 27, 2020. The statement indicated that the sacked Imam was also found to be contravening Islamic creed, lack of respect for established authorities, drug abuse involvement, among other allegations. In an interview with City News, the cleric, however, denied all the allegations, saying he was sacked because he refused to be a sycophant to one of the monarch’s council of chiefs, who resides in the area. He said he would take the matter to court to seek redress against the action, and also for defamation of character. The Barden Bwari, Alhaji Aliyu Garba, who the Imam was referring to, said he does not bear grudges against the Imam. He explained that the Sarkin Bwari has the power to confirm or sack any Imam under his chiefdom, adding that he acted accordingly based on complaints from the mosque members. Covid-19: 1 killed, 90 arrested as police, youth clash in Katsina over arrest of Imam JUST IN: Top dignitaries grace wedding of Sultan's daughter New sect ‘Yanlabaiku’ emerges in Kebbi