The Benue State Government has confirmed the second case of COVID-19 in the state. Our correspondent reports that the second victim of the deadly coronavirus was coming barely one month after the state recorded its index case of a female who returned from the United Kingdom and tested positive for COVID-19 on March 28. Governor Samuel Ortom, who confirmed the second incident while speaking to newsmen at Government House in Makurdi, on Tuesday, named the victim as Edward Manger. Ortom disclosed that the victim, who is an officer of the National Drug Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) and resident of Kano State, has since been confirmed positive by the National Center for Disease and Control (NCDC). Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The governor explained that the victim arrived in Benue towards the end of April and that his sample was taken as soon as he began to manifest the symptoms, positing that the state got confirmation of the case from the NCDC on Monday night and the victim was already taken into isolation. “It is with a heavy heart that I announce today again, another COVID-19 case in Benue State. “This young man came to Benue State towards the end of April and our Action Committee got wind of where he came from and swooped into action and it has been discovered just yesterday that he was positive. After samples were earlier taken to Abuja, the NCDC confirmed him positive. “He is Edward Manger; he works with NDLEA and was stationed in Kano. It is unfortunate but he is cooperating with us; we have isolated him and also made contact with his immediate family members. “And when we mention names, we are not doing so to ridicule the person; we have continually said there is no reason to stigmatise anyone with COVID-19. “When we mention people’s names, it’s for the interest of the society, so that anybody who has made contact with him towards the end of April up to yesterday (Monday) in their own interest would come forward,” he said. Ortom, therefore, emphasised that the state government would review the COVID-19 situation in the state before the week runs out and decide on the next line of action following the discovery of the new case.  Benue govt, UK returnee disagree over COVID-19 status Benue governor, Ortom gets COVID-19 test result Benue extends lockdown by 2weeks, slashes 2020 budget