Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers abducted a housewife, Mrs. Blessing Alex, and her 18-year -old son, Frank Alex, as well as two others in Ukya Tsoho community in Kuje Area Council, Daily Trust gathered. The two other victims are; Saidu Ibrahim and Zabe Alkali. The husband of the kidnapped woman, Mr Alex Johnny, said the incident happened on Friday night around 8:12 pm, when the gunmen attacked the community amidst sporadic gunshots. He said his wife was in the kitchen preparing pepper soup to sell to customers when the gunmen appeared and surrounded his house. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “I was inside the shop attending to customers with my son when I heard gunshots and I asked my wife to run and hide.  But before she could escape, they grabbed her and my son and took them away,” he said. Alex, who sells provisions and also operates a drinking spot, said some of the gunmen later entered his shop and carted away soft drinks, spaghetti, biscuits, bags of rice and beans, palm oil and condiments. According to him, the gunmen kidnapped two other victims who came to charge their phones in his shop, saying over 25 android phones were taken away by the gunmen. “The kidnappers called on Saturday and they demanded for N10 million before they would release my wife and son and I wondered where I would get such money from, “ he said. Wife to one of the kidnapped victims, Salamatu, told our reporter that her husband (Saidu Ibrahim) left the house to buy soft drinks at a nearby shop when he was abducted by the gunmen. “In fact, my husband took only one Mango to break his fast before he left home for Alex’s shop to buy soft drinks that he would take when he was kidnapped by the gunmen,” she said. She said she was yet to establish contact with the kidnappers, adding that her husband left his phone at home when he went to buy the soft drinks. The spokesman of the FCT police command, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said he was yet to be briefed on the issue. How gunmen raid Kuje community, kill 1, steal 50 cows Gunmen kidnap woman, son in Abuja community Again, Gunmen kidnap woman, son in Abuja community