A former Deputy Governor of Abia and President of Aba Landlords Welfare Association, Eric Acho Nwakanma has appealed to landlords to consider rent holidays/ waivers  for tenants in view of the economic crunch being faced by the populace following COVID-19 Speaking to our South East Trust in Umuahia, Nwakanma noted that landlords occupy a unique position in the battle against COVID-19, and therefore should encourage occupants of their properties to stay safe. “As owners of properties, landlords should ensure that all activities going on in our properties do not conflict with the regulations and guidelines on COVID-19. “All Landlords have a duty to report all infractions and activities that are non-complaint to the relevant authorities. You also have the duty to report suspected cases to the state COVID -19 committee. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “Landlords should kindly ensure that their tenants provide sanitisers and facilities for hand-washing at their business-places. “To the best of your ability, encourage business-owners, who are in your properties, to avoid crowding while delivering whatever goods or services they are offering. “Businessmen should ensure they apply hygienic methods such as use of hand gloves while handling money or conveying goods during exchange. Goods that can be sanitised using disinfectant or soap should be subjected to cleaning before being exchanged,’’ he said. He implores them to consider steps to make life easier for their tenants such as rent waiver on humanitarian grounds “because that is what makes us our brother’s keeper’’. He commended the Governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, for taking proactive measures that have kept infection rate very low and death rate at zero in the state. COVID-19: Landlords in Kenya to waive rent for three months ‘How Lagos one-year rent policy can work’ COVID-19: Gov. Wike imposes dusk to dawn curfew on Port Harcourt