The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is set for another round of crises as the party’s Deputy National Chairman (North), Sen. Lawal Shuaibu, on Wednesday said there was an absence of transparency in the build-up to the two governorship primary elections in Edo and Ondo States. Shuaibu, in a statement issued on Wednesday, said the majority of party members had become perplexed and disillusioned while some were weighing their options whether to leave the party. The second in command to the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, had been at loggerhead with the former labour leader and governor of Edo State before a sudden reconciliatory mood after the suspension of the controversial March 17, 2020 National Executive Committee (NEC). READ: APC asks governorship aspirants in Edo, Ondo to pay N22.5m Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He had in the past picked holes in the leadership style of Oshiomhole to the point of asking him to step aside if he could not handle the task. In the statement on Wednesday, Shuiabu said: “With regards to Ondo and Edo primary elections, there is already absence of transparency. READ: Why we are yet to tackle APC crises — Akande panel “The regulations issued that will guide the processes are already in violation of Article 20 (v) on page 76 of the APC constitution as amended where only the National Executive Committee is the only organ that shall approve such guidelines and regulations which include the mode of nominating our candidates. “I am crying for APC inside me! “Majority of the members of the party are already perplexed, disillusioned and some, even weighing their options. “A stitch in time, I believe, saves nine! “By Article 2 of the APC constitution, provides that subject to the provisions of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) and any other laws for the time being in force in the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the provisions of this constitution shall be supreme provided that where any rule, regulation or any other enactment shall, to the extent of its inconsistency, be null and void and of no effect whatsoever. “This document leaves no room for any form of aberration or brigandage. “In the light of the above, I call on leaders of APC to urgently intervene to ensure the provisions of the party constitution are adhered to and not further compromised. “Let me state categorically that I have no political ambition beyond where I find myself and my interest, if I may state, is borne out of genuine intention to save the party I laboured to build.” He also opposed the recent appointment of Arc. Waziri Bulama as APC National Secretary. You either convene NEC or resign, APC govs tell Oshiomhole Edo: No automatic ticket for Gov Obaseki, APC factional chairman says Edo gov’ship: Obaseki, Oshiomhole’s camps await APC primary for final battle