A commercial motorcyclist, Daniel James, was attacked by some hoodlums, who macheted him before disappearing with his motorcycle. James was attacked along the Imafon road, in Akure North Local Government, Ondo State, on Wednesday. The 24-year-old motorcyclist, presently receiving medical treatment at the police clinic in Akure, received several machete cuts and was abandoned in a bush. James, on his hospital bed yesterday, told our correspondent that the robbers macheted him in the head and also injured him with a long stick before making away with his motorcycle. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here James narrated, “I took a passenger from the NEPA junction area to the Court of Appeal. On my way back, I saw two men who flagged me down to take them to Imafon. “I agreed and charged them the sum of N150, but they pleaded I should collect N140 from them for the journey and I consented. When we got to their destination and I demanded for my money, they began attacking me with a heavy stick on my head and macheted me with a cutlass, too. “I struggled with them to prevent them from stealing my TVS motorcycle, which I bought a few weeks ago but they kept on attacking me.” He added that his attackers thereafter dragged him into the bush, where they inflicted on him more injuries and then disappeared with his motorcycle. “I later became conscious and crawled back to the main road, where I shouted for help and some motorcyclists, who also ply the route, came to my rescue. “They took me to the police station in Ala quarters, but the officers on duty said I should be taken to the hospital before lodging any statement,” he said. The spokesman for the police in Ondo, Tee-Leo Ikoro, when contacted, said he was yet to be briefed about the incident but promised to follow up on the case and ensure that  it was properly investigated. Inside raging war between motorcycle thieves, owners in Abuja Robbers in police uniform strike in Abuja community Kidnappers, cattle rustlers terrorise Sokoto communities