Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has announced the temporary lifting of the total lockdown on Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt Local Government Areas for two days only. The temporary lifting of the lockdown in the two LGAs, according to the governor, is with effect from Tuesday, 12th May 2020. Governor Wike, who made the announcement in a broadcast late Sunday, said the lockdown will be reinstated on Thursday, 14th May, 2020. The announcement came few hours after the governor monitored the demolition of two hotels for flouting the state’s lockdown order. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “Consequently, we have given due consideration to the propositions on the way forward by well-meaning citizens of the State, and after a cautious review of the situation, decided to implement a partial relaxation of the lockdown measures, to enable residents to have some fresh air and replenish their foodstuffs and medicines,” he said. The governor added that “All shops, supermarkets, and malls can open to the public for Tuesday and Wednesday, 12 and 13 May 2020. “Similarly, all hospitals and banks can also open and provide full services to the public.” However, for oil and gas companies, the governor said they are required to submit the list of their staff on essential duties to the government. He noted, however, that there is no ban on the lifting of petroleum products from depots and other receptacles. “The total lockdown on Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt Local Government Areas will be reinstated on Thursday 14th May 2020 and remain until further notice,” he added. Governor Wike said all other established restrictions under the Executive Orders on social distancing are still in force. “Compulsory wearing of face mask or scarfs in vehicles and public places; closure of all land, sea and air borders and entry routes into the State; and closure of all open markets, including slaughters, hotels, guest houses, cinemas, bars and restaurants; and ban on gathering, including public burials, weddings, and religious gathering of more than 50 persons,” he reiterated.  Lockdown: Gov Wike orders auctioning of impounded vehicles Court remands 10 Caverton helicopters' passengers in Rivers Coronavirus: Scientists urge FG to lock down Nigeria now