25 Civil Society Organizations have expressed outrage over the recent demolition of two hotels by Governor Nyesom Wike for allegedly flouting the lockdown directives of the Rivers State Government. The CSOs in a statement on Wednesday described Governor Wike’s action as ”an act of impunity, assault on Rule of Law and setback to civilisation.” The CSOs include notable civil rights movement like Civil Society Network Against Corruption (CSNAC), Rule of Law and Accountability Advocacy Centre (RULAAC), Democracy and Human Rights Network, Legal Defence & Assistance Project (LEDAP) among others. READ: Rivers: Gov Wike demolishes 2 hotels for flouting lockdown order Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Part of the statement read: ”The undersigned Civil Society Organisations, spread across Nigeria, have noted with utter embarrassment and outrage, the reckless abuse of power by Nyesom Wike, the Governor of Rivers State and his consistent drift towards a full-blown dictatorship. ”As lovers of democracy and believers in the rule of law, we are seriously concerned that Wike, who is a lawyer, could engage in such series of activities that blatantly subvert due process, undermine the rule of law and negate the norms of civilised and democratic practices. ”We acknowledge that citizens must comply with orders meant to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and protect citizens and residents of Rivers State. We also condemn the violation of such orders by any citizen whatsoever. But we equally assert that two wrongs cannot make a right. READ: Wike lifts lockdown in two LGAs for two days ”A democratically elected governor should rise above arbitrariness and lawlessness. The Constitution guarantees citizens the right to own property and this right cannot be circumscribed without following the due process of law. The Rivers State Governor has no legal right in law to confiscate or demolish the property of citizens by executive fiat. ”Wike should not be allowed to continue to violate the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. We call on citizens of Rivers State to resist Wike’s dictatorship. They should challenge him through civic and legal means.” The CSOs also called on the People’s Democratic Party,PDP, to speak up and condemn the governor’s excesses ”or else lose any moral ground to criticise or oppose any act of malfeasance by the ruling All People’s Congress (APC).” ”No law permits the Governor or the President to mete out any punishment to any citizen without recourse to the constitution. You cannot go outside the law to enforce the law. ”Any offender regardless of the crime committed should be charged before a Court and tried in line with the law,” the groups said. The group further noted that the Constitution guarantees every citizen fair hearing. Rivers: Gov Wike demolishes 2 hotels for flouting lockdown order Wike lifts lockdown in two Rivers' LGAs for two days Lockdown violation: Rivers gov't arrests, quarantines 22 Exxon Mobil workers