The traditional rural of Amutenyi Autonomous Community in Udenu Local Government Area of Enugu State, has thanked the state governor for embarking on the construction of  Amutenyi-Obollo-Afor-Umuenachi Amalla road. The commendation came barely a week after the President General of the Community, Chief Emeka Abba, cmplained of alleged shoddy job by the contractor. The traditional ruler,Igwe Mike Chima, in a statement, expressed his people’s appreciation to Gov. Ugwuanyi for his passion and commitment to rural-urban development across the entire state. SouthEast Trust recalls that in a petition to the state commissioner for works, Engr. Greg Nnaji, the community had earlier alleged that the contractor compromised the size of the road. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Chief Abba had alleged that the drainage system was being constructed close to the centre of the old road, thereby reducing the width from 18 to 13 meters. Disturbed   that the road could cause road crashes among members of the community if it was constructed that way, the people claimed that they made enquiries to determine the credibility of the contractor. However, the state commissioner for works, Engr. Greg Nnaji, said that he was surprised with the allegation being made by the community. Nnaji, leaders of the community including the traditional ruler, chairman of the local government area, alongside the youths, held a town-hall meeting where the matter was concluded. But Igwe Chima said in his statement that Ugwuanyi’s  rural development  policy, was unprecedented in the history of the state. On the allegations made on the ongoing road project in the area, Igwe Chima said that he drew the attention of the ministry of works and infrastructure to the matter, and invited the ministry and the road contractor to a meeting, which was held in his palace. “I am glad to state that the ministry of works and infrastructure made satisfactory explanations at the meeting, confirming that the contractor handling the project is competent , fully equipped and working in accordance with the contract specifications and should continue  with the work.” Igwe Chima stated that he had written to the commissioner for works to inform him that his community prefers shoulder instead of drainage. Igwe Chima further said: “The commissioner also maintained that the contractor is competent and had recently completed similar road projects in the state.” “I, therefore, once more appreciate our dear governor   for his aggressive rural transformation programme in the state and enjoin my community and the general public to disregard the media reports about this road project as I reassure the contractor of the safety of his workers and equipment,”  Igwe Chima stated. End  Enugu community appeals to Gov Ugwuanyi  to stop shoddy road project Why our Igweship crisis lingers - Enugu community Save us from erosion, Enugu monarch cries out