Kaduna State Government has discharged 210 Almajirai out of the 680 returned from neighbouring states due to Cornavirus pandemic. The children were freed to go home after completing their two weeks quarantine period in the state. The commissioner for Human Services and Social Development, Hafsat Baba, who addressed the children said they tested negative from the virus. She explained that discharged children were among those repatriated from Kano , Plateau, Bauchi, Gombe and Niger state. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here She said the children would be handed over to their local government chairmen to hand them over to their parents. “These  children  were from Kudan, Makarfi, Ikara, Giwa and Zaria local Government Areas of the state and were brought back from states like  Kano, Bauchi, Gombe, Niger and Plateau States. ” We are happy to say that two 210 of them would be  discharged today (Sunday) having completed their quarantine period of 14 days. “Those that tested positive have been isolated but those discharged are free to go home and reunite with their family,” she said. The commissioner also said the children will not be allowed to beg anymore in the state because the government has already banned Almajiri system in the state. She also said that the government will not abandoned them as they return home because the state government will ensure that all the children get western education as they continue with their Islamic education. The Soba Local Government Chairman Mohammed Mahm cautioned parents against sending their children to beg in the name of seeking qur’anic education. He explained that the council will ensure they educate the parents of the children before handing them over to them.  COVID-19: Fear of transmission heightens as govs repatriate almajirai across states Almajiri: View from the bottom Outrage after cleric housed 17 female Almajirai among boys in Zaria