A physically challenged man, Olajide Jonathan, has explained why he donated customised school bags to the Oyo State government for its ongoing ‘learning-on-air’ programme for primary school pupils. Jonathan said the bags were give-aways to encourage pupils in the state to pay rapt attention to the radio broadcast put together by the Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board, (OYOSUBEB). Jonathan, a resident of Ifo, Ogun State, commended the state government for taking learning to the doorsteps of pupils in the state. He urged the government to take into cognisance pupils with special needs during this stay-at-home period. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The donor, who expressed hope of meeting the Executive Chairman, OYOSUBEB, in person soon, said his support for the basic education sector was borne out of pure love for the Governor Seyi Makinde administration in Oyo State. Receiving the gifts, the Executive Chairman, OYOSUBEB, Dr Nureni Adeniran, described the gifts as “testimonies to the far reach of the broadcast”, adding that they would go a long way to encourage basic school pupils in the state. Adeniran noted that though the board initiated the idea of giveaways about two weeks ago, with cash prize for winners, complementing the idea with beautifully customized bags for pupils would be an added advantage for the lucky winners. “This is an immense contribution, coming from Mr. Olajide Jonathan. We never expected that someone who neither resides in the state nor comes from the state would pick this kind of keen interest in our on-air programme for pupils during this stay-at-home period,” he said. Dr Adeniran urged pupils and their parents to abide by the precautionary advice prescribed by the Oyo State COVID-19 Task Force to help in halting the spread of the virus.  Alum donates N100m buildings to alma mater Oyo suspends school heads over extortion Gombe pupils get bags, uniforms