Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has announced the successful delivery of a baby boy by a COVID-19 patient through a caesarean section at the Gbagada isolation centre on Saturday. According to Sanwo-Olu, the feat is another validation of the government’s position that it would stamp out the virus from the State. “I bring you great news from our isolation facilities. “On Saturday, a pregnant COVID-19 positive patient was delivered of a baby boy through the caesarean section at the Gbagada Isolation Centre. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “Both Mother and baby are doing well. “This achievement is a pointer that our strategies in Lagos State are working and yielding the desired results. “It is also a sign of victory and motivation for us as we push ahead in the battle against the Coronavirus pandemic,” he said. Giving update on the virus, Governor Sanwo-Olu disclosed that 67 patients, including two Indians and one Chinese, were discharged on Saturday from four isolation centres in Lagos after testing negative two consecutive times for the coronavirus. The patients, made up of 22 females and 45 males, were discharged to reunite with the society. With the latest discharge, the total number of confirmed cases successfully managed and discharged in Lagos stands at 608. Additional three COVID-19 related deaths were also recorded in the State, bringing the number of such deaths to 36. Meanwhile, three of the Nigerians recently evacuated from United Arab Emirates (UAE) have tested positive for COVID-19, following test conducted on them. Commissioner for health, Professor Akin Abayomi, disclosed this on his verified twitter handle @ProfAkinAbayomi, saying those affected have been admitted into the Lagos State’s isolation facility for appropriate treatment protocols. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control on Saturday night announced 176 new cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria with 95cases in Lagos, raising the number of confirmed cases in the State to 2,389. Governor Sanwo-Olu appealed to Lagosians to support the government in its drive to rid the State of COVID-19 by complying with all its directives on the various safety protocols. “As our front line health workers record successes in the battle against COVID-19, we urge citizens to adhere strictly to our public advisories and directives as this is the only way we can break the chain of transmission of the infection and hoist the flag of victory at the end of it all.”