Two persons, Alhaji Hussain Abdullahi and Abubakar Idris, who were abducted last week, were rescued by members of the vigilante group in Rubochi, Kuje Area Council. A resident of the area, simply identified as Samson, said the kidnapped victims were rescued on Thursday afternoon after they were abducted by gunmen along Nuku-Rubochi road in the area. He said the two victims were abducted while travelling from Rubochi to Abaji, when the gunmen emerged from the bush, flagged their vehicle down and took them away. He said the gunmen later called the family members of the victims and demanded N10 million for each person. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He said the vigilantes in the community who got wind of the incident mobilised and went after the kidnappers. “The vigilantes and some youths mobilised themselves and met the chief at his palace to seek his permission to go after the kidnappers and rescue the victims, “ he said. According to him, the vigilantes carried locally-made guns and cutlasses and went after the kidnappers. The source said there was exchange of gun fire before the victims were rescued. He added, “you know, since our chief was kidnapped early this year, we no longer take chances. They either kill us or we kill them”. The spokesman of the FCT police command, DSP Anjuguri Manzaha, did not pick calls or reply to a text message sent to him to confirm the incident. In a related development, the kidnapped director of personnel management of Umaisha development area in Toto Local Government Council of Nasarawa State, Ahmad Usman Onairo, and his son, Mohammed Mahmud Onairo, have regained freedom. It was alleged that the duo were set free after payment of N3 million ransom. City News learnt that the director and his son were held captive by their abductors for about two weeks. It was gathered that the kidnappers opened fire on a vehicle in which they were travelling along Ugya -Umaisha road, killing four persons on the spot. A member of the director’s family who preferred anonymity told our reporter yesterday in Toto that the director and his son were released around 7:12 pm at a forest in Turunku village in the area. He said the director and his son were currently receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital in Toto due to the traumatic experience. The spokesman of the Nasarawa State police command, ASP Ramhan Nansel, did not pick calls put through to him to confirm the development. He was also yet to respond to a text message sent to him at the  time of filling this report. 