The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has ruled out the postponement of the Edo and Ondo states governorship elections. National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee (IVEC), Festus Okoye, said this on Tuesday in Abuja at the the commission management meeting. “The Commission reiterated its commitment to conduct the Edo and Ondo Governorship elections on 19th September and 10th October 2020 as contained in the Timetable and Schedule of Activities released on 6th February 2020,” Okoye said. According to him, INEC deliberated extensively on a Policy Framework that will guide its operations, activities and engagements with critical stakeholders in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the electoral process in Nigeria. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He said, “Based on this, the commission will on Thursday 21st May 2020 issue a Policy Framework for engagement with stakeholders, the conduct of the two end of tenure governorship elections, outstanding bye elections and future electoral activities. “We reassure Nigerians of our resolve and determination to provide the requisite guidance, innovation and leadership in conducting elections in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Commission is committed to fulfilling its constitutional responsibility of conducting elections but without jeopardizing the health and wellbeing of citizens, stakeholders or its valued staff.” He said the commission will accelerate consultations and engagements with political parties, civil society organizations, security agencies and health authorities as soon as its Policy Framework is finalized this week. He therefore urged everyone to remain safe and healthy by complying with all the guidelines and protocols issued by the health authorities. INEC to issue fresh modalities for Edo, Ondo gov’ship elections COVID-19: INEC postpones Bayelsa, Imo, Plateau by-elections COVID-19: No plan to shift Edo, Ondo governorship polls yet - INEC