As a business, a mix of options abounds for getting products across to final users. This may be directly through corporate outlets or indirectly through wholesalers, retailers or franchised and non-franchised dealers. This explains why dealers and distributors are an extension of the brand and enjoy unfettered access to information and updates pertaining to the brand. They also provide the critical human touch through personal relationships with customers that help to build loyalty and ultimately promote increased sales turnover. Therefore, it is pertinent that brands support these vital stakeholder groups to be successful as this will translate to better business outcomes for both parties. The imperative of this symbiotic relationship was recently demonstrated by 9mobile at its annual Channel Partners Conference 2020 as it converged with its channel partners in Lagos to dialogue and synergise further for the future with an appropriate theme: “Facing the Future Together”. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Speaking at the 9mobile conference, the CEO of Corporate Shepherds Limited, Mr. Idorenyen Enang, stressed the essence of good partnership between a brand and its dealers. Enang said: “Collaboration is very essential, there is absolutely no way you won’t win if everyone contributes their strengths to the common goal. Win-win is about winning together. The strength of partnerships is what makes things work and guarantees enduring success. It is clear that taking the future calls for more collaboration.” The Director of Sales at 9mobile, Mr. Oluwatosin Olulana, while commenting on the telco’s business outlook for 2020, assured partners that there would be more focus on simpler propositions, staying through to its promise of delivering better service in terms of data quality and pricing. “With the recent expansion of our 4G network, we have increased capacity, which means that we need to do more in terms of deployment. There is a huge potential that we can take advantage of, and we are very optimistic about meeting our expectations this year.” “Another noteworthy point in this discourse is that brands are better off when they welcome feedback and input from partners in shaping key business decisions. Communication as we know, is a two-way street, and it is important that brands listen and get valuable feedback from their distribution network, Mr. Olulana said. In her remarks, the Business Development Director of Vas2Net Technology Limited, Mrs. Teniola Stuffman, said: “Our deliberations have been very constructive. The introduction was very focused. It is a step in the right direction for us, and I have the confidence that with what we have heard, we are expecting 2020 to be much better. There are some demands that we have made, and the brand has promised they will respond, and there are some commitments from our own side as well. “It is teamwork, and if we are both collaborating well, we should be able to achieve our target by the end of the year. Sustainability is very key, and the element of focus makes it obvious that we are all on the same page. Also, the fact that all concerns have been taken to mind is very key.” The event clearly highlighted why today’s brands must create opportunities for interactions with their channel partners so as to learn of their challenges first-hand and identify what support they need to be more effective. These stakeholders can be most successful when they feel valued and know that the brand appreciates that their contributions impact the overall bottom-line of the business. The Acting Managing Director of 9mobile, Mr. Stephane Beuvelet, re-emphasised the rationale behind the Channel Partners Conference while highlighting the company’s resolve to foster value-driven relationships among its channel partners. He said, “The idea behind this conference is to converge with our channel partners and dealers to create the energy and momentum that we need to grow in 2020 and beyond. We have fixed the challenges we had in the past, and now we are in the right trajectory to succeed. “We have started on the right footing with the deployment of our infrastructure and 4GLTE across the country. We have also slashed down our prices, and people have realised that 9mobile is the preferred network. We have also created this new demand that will favour our partners and sales dealers.” The telco chief further outlined some unique customer propositions of the network, saying, “We have the cheapest and best quality service. We also have a well-trained and effective customer care team that is second to none across all our touchpoints. We want to reassure Nigerians and our customers that we have more competitive products and services with the best value at the most affordable rate. “We recognise that we need our partners and dealers to grow, and the reason we are sitting together with them today is not only to share our plans and vision but also to hear from them and strengthen our relationship.” 9mobile outlines 2020 business growth strategies Teleology finally acquires 9mobile, appoints new board Teleology finally acquires 9mobile, appoints new board