Rivers State government said that it has converted the demolished premises of Prodest hotel to a primary school. The hotel was demolished last Sunday on the directive of Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, for allegedly flouting the Executive Order on closure of hotels in the State. Rivers State Commissioner for Information and Communication, Pastor Paulinious Nsirim, who disclosed this at a press briefing in Port Harcourt on Wednesday, said that governor Wike had approved that a primary school be constructed at the location of the demolished hotel. “Having demolished that hotel, Governor Wike has approved that a primary school be constructed at that location to serve Rivers people. This is what a responsive government will do. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “Eleme people are happy with the demolition. “In several publications they made after the demolition, they have declared that Prodest Hotel is a criminal hideout and a den for cultists. “They added that Prodest Hotel is a centre for gun-running by the wanted PDP Youth Leader. “It was his criminal tendencies that emboldened him to unleash mayhem on State officials when the Hotel Manager invited him. “These are facts that the political analysts have turned away from. “They have allowed their political enmity with Governor Wike to override their objective judgment,” he stated. He berated those he described as “Social Media Lawyers” and their followers for their refusal to ask why out of several hotels operating in Rivers State only Prodest and Etemeteh hotels were demolished. He said that the fight against coronavirus in the state had been premised on the Rule of Law. He noted that the demolition of the two hotels was carried out in line with the prescribed Executive Order known to all hoteliers in the State. The commissioner also said that the demolition was done to protect officials of the Rivers State Government who are implementing the Executive Order. No evidence Wike demolished mosque - Fayemi Rivers: Gov Wike demolishes 2 hotels for flouting lockdown order Rivers govt did not demolish any mosque - Wike