On March 16, 2020, in the wake of the plunge in international oil prices and the COVID-19 outbreak, the CBN, in a move to preserve the stability of the Nigerian financial market, introduced some policy measures in response to the COVID-19 outbreak and spill overs. The apex bank, in showing example, announced extension of moratorium for all CBN intervention facilities with effect from March 1, 2020. By implication, all CBN intervention facilities have been granted additional one year on all principal repayments. In this regard, the participating financial institutions are required to provide new amortisation schedules for the beneficiaries of the various loans. The CBN also announced a reduction in the applicable interest rates on all its intervention facilities – interest rates on all applicable intervention facilities have been reduced from nine to five per cent per annum, with effect from March 1, 2020. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here However, the apex bank, in ensuring a wider impact, announced a regulatory forbearance, which implies that Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) have been given leave to extend the tenors of credits granted to businesses and households. In this regard, temporary and time-limited restructuring of loan terms are to be considered for all credits granted to businesses, particularly in the oil and gas, agriculture and manufacturing sectors. The impact of this singular provision cannot be over-emphasised, especially that there are lenders with heavy exposure to Nigerian oil producers such as First Bank, GTB, Zenith and Access Bank. According to the Fitch Ratings released in on April 1, 2020, Nigerian banks’ credit profiles face severe risks from the oil price slump and operating environment disruption due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The rating firm said asset quality deterioration linked to high exposures to the oil and gas sector was the biggest threat to ratings. Fitch Ratings said, “Operating environment risks inevitably rise in Nigeria when oil prices fall. Oil exports represent 95 per cent of the country’s export revenue and strongly influence the broader economy. Falling oil revenue may also lead to further currency devaluation.” Accordingly, “The slump in oil prices raises the risk of a recession. Operating environment risks are compounded by economic and financial market disruptions amid measures to counter the pandemic, putting pressure on all borrowers.” The report enumerated. Following the forbearance, First Bank announced a 90-day moratorium on SME loans with the aim to cushion the impact of the toll on employment and livelihoods. The CEO of First Bank, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, said, “This is indeed a time to double down effort and explore opportunities to ease the impact of the extension.” Similarly, GTB has placed a hold on its loan repayment plan for all Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) that have obtained credit facilities from the bank. The lender explained that businesses that obtained Food Industry Credit and Fashion Industry Credit would be issued a 90-day moratorium from repayment. GTB also afforded individuals who obtained Quick Credit for business the same benefit. Small businesses that fall within the aforementioned categories do not have to repay their loans in the next three months, but the interest rates on the facilities will still be paid. Recall that President Muhammadu Buhari in the nationwide presidential broadcast penultimate week said the Federal Government had granted a three-month repayment moratorium for all government funded loans. The moratorium will cover the Tradermoni, Marketmoni, Farmermoni and all loans issued through the Bank of Industry (BOI), Bank of Agriculture (BOA) and the Nigeria Export Import Bank (NEXIM). The CEO of Mascot Consult Limited, Mr. Marcel Okeke, has said the three-month moratorium was not enough, and that, “The banks should consider some interest cuts to enable businesses survive this critical time.” A financial expert, Johnson Chukwu, has said the measures announced by the CBN would boost the confidence of the people, but argued that the apex bank might face some challenges in the implementation. Chukwu said, “What CBN is trying to do is to give people some level of confidence. It is a positive action plan to support the economy. But the modalities in implementing it are the challenges.” Supporting the position of the apex bank, Fitch noted that forbearance measures would provide some relief to businesses and households and help the flow of credit into the economy. It added that, “This will support reported asset quality metrics in the short-term (the average stage three loans ratio for Fitch-rated banks was 5.7 per cent at the end of 2019) but asset quality could deteriorate significantly depending on the duration and severity of the oil price shock and COVID-19 turmoil.” On how the forbearance will be appropriated, the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, said, “The CBN and the Bankers’ Committee have resolved at this time to collaborate with one coherent strategy to provide confidence to the customers, counter parties, the public, ultimately putting Nigeria first.”  Coronavirus: CBN slashes interest rates on intervention funds to 5% Agric stakeholders laud CBN over slashed interest rates Coronavirus: CBN slashes interest rates on intervention funds to 5%