The British High Commission has confirmed that over 250 British nationals were evacuated from Nigeria to the UK on Friday on a special return charter flight organised between the UK and Nigerian governments. It was the eighth repatriation flight organised by the British High Commission for Brits who opted to return from Nigeria since all airports in Nigeria were closed to international commercial flights on March 23, the commission stated. The commission also confirmed that over 200 Nigerians returned from London’s Heathrow via the Murtala Mohammed International Airport in Lagos. British High Commissioner, Catriona Laing, said: “I’m so pleased we were able help Nigerians get back home whilst also helping more British nationals return home to the UK. We work around the clock to support British nationals who remain in the country. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “I want offer a huge thank you to the Nigerian government for their support and assistance in arranging these flights.  The strong cooperation we have had from our Nigerian partners demonstrates the enduring bonds between our two countries”. She said the British High Commission had been working with the federal government through the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Transportation and Ministry of Aviation, the FCT, the Nigerian High Commission and Lagos State authorities to arrange all of the flights. She also noted that the UK would continue to work closely with the Nigerian government not just on flights for stranded travelers in both countries, but on fighting COVID-19 and building a better future for Nigeria. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, had  in a statement said Nigeria was working in collaboration with the British High Commission to evacuate Nigerians from London. Covid-19: Evacuation of Americans stalled as 4,000 British citizens seek to leave Nigeria UK evacuates 213 citizens as Nigeria extends closure of airports Migration between the UK and Nigeria: A Well-Travelled Path