Ahead of the October 10 Governorship election in Ondo State, gladiators within the fold of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state have commenced intense jostling and maneuvering to secure the party’s ticket. The APC national leadership has fixed July 20 for the conduct of the primary election in Ondo State to determine who flies the party’s flag. Incumbent Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu who is seeking the party’s ticket to actualize his second term bid is facing opposition from other gladiators who are bent on wrestling the power from him. Akeredolu’s supporters have continued to propagate their ‘four plus four’ (4+4) campaign slogan amidst the COVID-19 pandemic which has crippled open campaigns in the state. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here In the other hand, efforts were being made by the other gladiators operating under the auspices of the ‘Unity Forum’ to wrestle the ticket from the incumbent governor. The Unity Forum comprises opposition groups within the APC and headed by a former deputy governor, Alhaji Alli Olunusi. Olunusi who is a member of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the APC, served under the administration of former Governor Olusegun Mimiko. The group which has about 10 leading aspirants within its fold came up last week to announce Olusola Oke (SAN) as its consensus candidate ahead of the primary. Other aspirants within the forum include Dr Segun Abraham, Barr. Olanrewaju Kazeem, Engr Ife  Oyedele, Barr. Bukola Adetula, Prince Dapo Adelegan, Mr. Olayide Adelami, Mr. Akintunde Awodeyi, Barr. Jumoke Anifowose and Prince Jimmy Odimayo. Oke, a former member of the PDP crossed to APC to contest the last governor ship primaries where he came third. Not satisfied with the result of the APC primaries, he joined the Alliance for Democracy (AD) and contested on the platform with others and but lost to Akeredolu of the APC. Meanwhile, the choice of Oke as consensus candidate from the Unity Forum appears to be tearing the group apart as some of the members have kicked against it. Shortly after the announcement of Oke as the candidate of the Unity Forum, other aspirants said they did not agree with the way Oke emerged. They faulted the process saying it was fraudulent. Subsequently, Alhaji Olanusi was suspended by elders of the Unity Forum while a-seven man aspirant committee was set up to produce an acceptable consensus candidate. The sack of Olanusi was announced by High Chief S.A. Idris who is the chairman of the elders’ forum of the group. The elders declared the report which produced Oke as null and void. Following this development, Senator Ajayi Boroffice, representing Ondo North and deputy Senate Majority Leader, who is also a member of the Unity Forum kicked against the emergence of Oke. Senator Boroffice has however told all the aspirants to be ready for the primary election since they have not agreed on a consensus candidate. Boroffice alleged that Oke,Olanusi and Akeredolu had struck a deal that would not be acceptable to the party’s national leadership. Boroffice said Oke cannot be trusted with the mandate of the forum, alleging that Akeredolu had promised to hand over to Oke after his second term in office The senator said Oke would step down for Akeredolu when it is a week to the primary election. But in a swift reaction, Oke denied the allegations saying he does not have any deal with Akeredolu. He said he was surprised the senator could come to that conclusion adding that he bears no grudge against anyone. As it stands, it seems all the aspirants within the Unity Forum would have to contest against governor Akeredolu and Barrister Isaac Kekemeke. Spokesman of the APC in the state, Steve Otaloro, said they were ready for the elections but however admitted that “the biggest headache of the party is the crisis within.” Kogi 2019:   Bello’s chances  in November poll Bayelsa governorship: APC, PDP in a battle of shark and ocean Hottest governorship race of 2019