The oldest retired judge of the High Court of Lagos State, Justice Isiaka Isola Oluwa, died yesterday at the age of 102. Justice Oluwa died in his home at Ilupeju, Lagos in the early hours of yesterday, Daily Trust gathered. It was also gathered that he was buried at the Atan Cemetery, Yaba yesterday, according to Islamic rites. The late jurist was born on June 23, 1918 to Lagosian parents in Cross River State. He attended Forcados Government School, Bonny; St Bartholomew’s School, Degema; Government School, Sapele; and King’s College, Lagos. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Justice Oluwa also attended School of Agriculture, Samaru-Zaria, University of London where he studied Law, and Lincoln’s Inn, London, where he was called to the Bar in 1957. The late jurist worked severally as a lecturer, Farm Management, University of Ibadan (1949-50), lecturer, School of Agriculture, Samaru-Zaria, and Extension Manager, Zaria Province. He started his law practice after returning to Nigeria from London and formed Oluwa, Kotoye and Co. He was appointed a High Court judge on June 1,1974. He would be remembered as the judge that sentenced Lagos socialite, Alhaji Jimoh Isola, a.k.a Ejigbadero, to death for the murder of a farmer, Raji Oba, over land disputes in 1975. He retired on June 17, 1983. Justice Oluwa at various times was a member, Board of Governors, Glover Memorial Hall (1965-1974), member, Lagos Town Council, member, Reorganization of Local Government, Lagos State, and Pro-Chancellor of the Lagos State University, Ojo. Also, for many years, he was the chairman of the Association of Lagos indigenous retired judges. Reacting, the Atona Odua of Yorubaland, Chief Bode George, said Justice Oluwa was definitive of the essence of the Lagosian identity. George, a former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in a statement by his special adviser, Prince Uthman Shodipe-Dosunmu, described the late judge as a bundle of principled persona, strong in wit and humor, dedicated to the liberation of Lagos and the oppressed from the whims and the caprices of the oppressors.  Lagos oldest judge dies at 102 Ex-CJN, Kutigi, dies at 78 Justice Aloysius Katsina-Alu []1941-2018]