The Ekiti State governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has warned that any vehicle that violates the lockdown directive during the COVID-19 pandemic will, henceforth, be forfeited to the state government. This was contained in COVID-19 implementation guidelines the state government released on Monday, signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Biodun Oyebanji, as Gov Fayemi eased the lockdown imposed on the state. Reading the guidelines at the COVID-19 media update yesterday, the Commissioner for Information, Mr Muyiwa Olumilua, said interstate travels remained prohibited, while defaulting vehicles would be seized and forfeited to the state government. Olumilua informed the residents that the lockdown was not totally lifted, saying residents can enjoy freedom of movement on Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays between 7am and 4pm, while the curfew earlier placed between 7pm and 6am is still in place. “All the major markets like Oja Oba, Shasha and Bisi in Ado Ekiti remain closed. Vehicles conveying agricultural products and those engaged in farming will be allowed to move freely with valid identification. “Schools remain closed indefinitely. Compulsory use of facemasks is still operational, while those arrested at the borders will be quarantined for 14 days at their own expense,” he said. The Commissioner for Health, Dr Mojisola Yaya- Kolade, revealed at the press parley that the three new cases of coronavirus recorded in Ekiti were healthcare workers who contracted the scourge from the pregnant woman that died two weeks ago. Yaya-Kolade said, “The three new persons have been evacuated from their homes and put in our isolation centre. They are currently asymptomatic and we are very lucky because they had only four contacts. We have seen them and their blood samples have been taken. “Seven laboratory results are being awaited. Covid-19 is under containment in Ekiti. There is no community spread. All those that have been infected were traceable to someone.” The Director-General, Office of Strategic Transformation and Delivery, Professor Bolaji Aluko, said restriction was still being placed on religious gatherings in the state, saying only burials were exempted, which he said can only be attended by 20 persons. “Markets remain one of the places where Covid- 19 are contracted, so all major markets are closed down. Beer parlours and recreational centres are also closed for the next two weeks,” Aluko said. He charged traditional rulers in border towns to institute community policing to work with security agencies to checkmate the influx of people from neighbouring or far states into Ekiti. “This is very important because the border towns will be the first to be ravaged by the disease if it breaks out in Ekiti,” Aluko warned. He said that incessant cases of compromises at the borders had been reported to the security agencies and efforts intensified to rectify such practices. Ekiti records another COVID-19 case COVID-19: Kwara sets up mobile court to try lockdown violators COVID-19: Ekiti governor imposes curfew, bans movements