The Kuje Area Council in FCT has directed residents to use face mask as a preventive measure against coronavirus in the area. The council said it would enforce the wearing of the mask as a critical public health measure to curb further spread of the disease. Mr Sunday Zaka, the Chairman of Kuje Task Force on COVID-19 response, made this known to newsmen on Thursday in Kuje. “The wearing of face mask has now become compulsory in this area,” he said. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Zaka said all persons who venture out of their homes for whatever reason must wear face mask and observe social/physical distancing everywhere they go, both in markets and in vehicles. “Based on the Federal Government directive to ease the lockdown, we must take preventive measures by using the face mask, hand sanitiser and washing of our hands all the time. “Since there is ease in the lockdown, we must use such method to combat the pandemic,” Zaka said. The chairman also warned against stigmatising persons that have tested positive to coronavirus, saying it would prevent people from willingly coming out to be tested for the virus. He appealed to the residents to take the lockdown order by the federal government and experts advice seriously, noting that the fight to beat the pandemic depended largely on obedience. “My message to other people that have not heard is that we are using it as a compulsory method to stop the spread so as to be coronavirus free. “That is why the Kuje area council Chairman has taken it upon himself and produced over 1,000 face masks and we distributed it to security agencies and others. “We urge every other persons in Kuje Area Council and Federal Capital Territory to emulate what the Chairman of Kuje Area Council has done and also urge the residents to adhere strictly to the directive,” he said. (NAN)  What Nigerians must do to avoid COVID-19 spread as economy re-opens LG boss leads fumigation against coronavirus Lockdown enforcement: Security operatives exposed to coronavirus