TAJBank, Nigeria’s most innovative non-interest financial institution, has announced a N150 million Sukuk Bond issuance as approved by the Federal Government of Nigeria This will be the first time that the bank will be acting in the capacity of a Receiving Agent since its’ opening for operations on December 2nd 2020. The Founder/Chief Operating Officer TAJBank, Mr Hamid Joda enthused: “We are delighted to be appointed as a Receiving Bank for FGN Sukuk by the Federal Government. This investment platform is a safe and risk-free form of investment and offers a stable, tax free, rental income stream. “There are enormous benefits derived from regular Sukuk issuance programmes like this to the economy, as it will secure much-needed capital to boost infrastructural development spanning several sectors such as health, transportation and much more”, the banker added. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here In his remarks, the Chief Marketing Officer TAJBank, Mr Sherif Idi, also stated that, “it is important to understand the principles which guide Sukuk. These principles are what make this platform so attractive to investors. “One of such attractive features is that the holder has an undivided ownership right in a particular asset and as such is entitled to the return generated by that asset. As such, this provides an opportunity for all to invest safely and enjoy the attractive benefits of a triple A rated ethical instrument”, Idi assured The FGN Sukuk 2020 is open to all categories of investors which include, retail investors. high net worth individuals, institutional investors such as commercial banks, insurance /takaful companies, pension fund administrators, asset managers, ethically inclined investors, Cooperative societies, Religious bodies as well as state investment companies. Sukuk is also commonly referred to as Sharia compliant bonds  and is developed as an alternative to conventional bonds.  Sukuk provides an alternative long-term financing for key sectors such as infrastructure. Considering the state of the economy and infrastructure challenges and as several countries grapple with the economic impact of COVID-19. Book building commenced on 21st May 2020 while funding will be on 2nd June 2020. FBNQUEST Merchant Bank acts as co-financial advisor for FGN SUKUK II Issuance Sukuk: Providing alternative financial sources Why we issue Sukuk bonds — DMO DG