There are strong indications that the implementation of AfCFTA agreement will not begin on July 1st 2020 as earlier planned due to disruptions caused by the COVID-19  pandemic globally but more particularly in Africa. The newly elected Secretary-General of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) secretariat, Wamkele Mene, was reported as saying that the July timeline is no longer feasible. The agreement, which should formally have entered its operational phase on July 7, 2019, is expected to kick start in July 2020, following the ratification by 54 of all 55 African countries. It was also reported that the AU summit which was scheduled to hold in South Africa on 30th May to encourage trade negotiators to complete their bargaining on tariff reductions, rules of origin and other necessary regulations has been postponed. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The AfCFTA agreement, which is aimed at removing trade barriers and in turn boosting intra-Africa trade, was brokered by African Union (AU) and signed on by 44 of its 55 member states in Kigali, Rwanda on March 21, 2018. President Muhammadu Buhari, in July 2019, after initially withdrawing assent, signed the agreement at the 12th Extraordinary Session of the Assembly of the African Union in Niger Republic. The agreement requires members to remove tariffs from 90percent of goods traded, allowing free access to commodities, goods, and services across the continent. According to International Monetary Fund (IMF), the elimination of tariffs could boost trade in Africa by 15-25percent in the medium term. Once operational, the agreement is expected to create a US$3.4 trillion economic bloc, connecting 1.3 billion people across Africa, which would make it the largest trading bloc since the World Trade Organization was formed in 1994. Specifically for Nigeria, the agreement was expected to open up the African market for key manufacturing companies in the country to support export sales whilst also raising the prospects of attracting foreign direct investment across the value chain and different compartments in the manufacturing sector. Although, the delay in implementation implies these benefits will not be seen in the short to medium term. Some analysts were quoted as saying that “we think it gives the country ample time to accelerate investment in critical infrastructure that will reduce the cost of producing goods locally and improve the competitiveness of local manufacturers. “In our view, African countries with the requisite infrastructure needed for large scale manufacturing activities will be better placed to attract foreign capital from multinational companies who are seeking to establish manufacturing hubs in to Africa to take advantage of economies of scale as well as the benefit associated with the absence of regional taxes made possible by AfCFTA”, they added. Experts chart roadmap to AfCTA’s July 2020 take-off As AfCFTA kicks off As Nigeria prepares to sign free trade pact