Hygiene products brand Dettol has donated more than 12,000 units of its antiseptic liquid and antibacterial soap to Lagos State Safety Commission to help residents maintain hygiene. It comes as part of concerted private and public sector efforts nationwide to ensure that citizens continue to adhere to safe health practices amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Dettol called its most recent donation a contribution to Lagos active measures to provide palliatives. Hygiene products are among items the state is distributing to vulnerable residents. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “In the course of going around Lagos State to educate and enforce the compulsory lockdown, the major problem we faced in different communities was hunger and hygiene,” the commission said. “We have been distributing food and hygiene products and we appreciate Dettol’s contribution to our cause. It will go a long way in helping a lot of vulnerable people.” Dayanand Sriram, general manager of Reckitt Benckiser Nigeria, which makes the products, said the firm “is glad to extend its support in the fight against COVID-19 to the Lagos state government with the donation of our hygiene products. “Dettol protects from up to 100 illness causing germs, and we will not relent in our advocacy of good hygiene practices and support for the country during and after this pandemic.” The latest donation on April 30 was received by Taiwo Fesomu, director of administration and human resources on behalf of the Lagos State Safety Commission at Alausa Secretariat, Lagos. Dettol has contributed to state and federal organisations since coronavirus pandemic reached the country. One donation of hygiene products was to Ogun to shore up the state’s stimulus package vulnerable residents impacted by Covid-19 lockdown. It’s also collaborated with Nigeria Centre for Disease Control to educate the public on Covid-19 prevention. Dettol donates  hygiene products to Ogun Covid-19 response Dettol, Lagos teach 50,000 children handwashing Coronavirus: Dettol, Lagos to teach 50,000 children handwashing