The lawmaker representing Niger East Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Senator Mohammed Sani Musa, on Wednesday, flagged off the distribution of palliatives to indigent members of his constituency as part of efforts to cushion the sufferings posed by the novel coronavirus pandemic. About 1000 households in the 99 wards of the nine local government areas under the Senatorial District are to benefit from the gesture. At the symbolic presentation of the items to representatives of each of the nine local government areas, Senator Musa, who was represented by Mallam Sagir Tafida, his Legislative Aide, said he was moved by the plight of his people who have been suffering due to the lockdown declared by the government to contain the spread of COVID-19. “You can see what is happening since the outbreak of COVID-19. People are suffering because of the lockdown declared by the government to contain the pandemic. Many people have lost their means of livelihood; jobs and businesses have been affected. People are complaining of hunger. You cannot keep people at home and not cater for them. So, I felt I should reach out to my people  to help them. I am touched seeing them suffer. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “I will continue to reach out to my people to ensure that they do not suffer double tragedy,” he said. The Senator said a monitoring committee, which would be working closely with the committees in each of the local government areas, has been set up to ensure the items reach the desired targets. Representatives from each of the local government areas commended the efforts by Senator Musa, urging other politicians and appointees in the Senatorial District to do same. “Truly, we are suffering. We are locked down in our houses without food and money. This gesture by Senator Sani Musa is apt. It will go a long way to ameliorate our sufferings,” a representative from Tafa Local Government Area, Habiba Mohammed, explained. COVID-19: Constituents lament neglect by lawmakers as lockdown bites harder Ramadan: Uba Sani distributes palliatives to 2m households Lockdown: When palliatives don’t reach proletariat