After months of intrigues, Waziri Bulama was on Monday inaugurated as the acting National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC). There have been series of machinations since the position of the national secretary became vacant following the resignation of Mai Mala Buni to contest for the governorship election in Yobe State. Bulama’s candidature had faced stiff opposition by a section of the party led by the National Vice Chairman (North-east), Mustapha Salihu. READ: Yobe rejects Bulama as national secretary Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The swearing-in ceremony, which took place at the party national secretariat, was conducted by the party national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. Governor of Borno, Babagana Zulum and his Gombe counterpart, Mohammed Inuwa, attended the ceremony. There was, however, a mild drama before the inauguration as the North-east Vice Chairman, Comrade Mustapha asked Oshiomhole to stop the inauguration. He asked journalists to excuse them for five minutes to enable them to iron out some issues. READ: Why APC crises are yet to be tackled The meeting, however, lasted for more than 30 minutes. Speaking before the inauguration, Oshiomhole said Bulama was inaugurated as acting Secretary pending the ratification by the national convention. He said all necessary stakeholders, including President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Mai-Mala Buni, among others were consulted. Meanwhile, Gombe State Governor Mohammed Inuwa said he had known the new national secretary for more than 40 years, adding that Bulama will add value to the leadership of the party. Responding, the new national secretary said he had no agenda of his own, and promised to work along with other party executives to move the party forward. APC crisis rages on despite truce NWC member says Oshiomhole no longer APC chair, rejects Bulama as party scribe Despite crack, anti-Oshiomhole NWC members set for NEC