The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has restated commitment to collaborate with relevant agencies and stakeholders to safeguard the country’s maritime domain. The Director General of NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, stated this in Lagos during the official handover of pirates arrested by the Nigerian Navy (NN) for prosecution. Jamoh attributed the successful operation that led to the arrest of the pirates and rescue of the ship and its crew to collaboration between NIMASA and the Nigerian Navy, saying the agency would continue to work with relevant security agencies in order to achieve its goal of eradicating piracy and all forms of illegality on Nigerian waters. The 10 pirates had on May 15, 2020, attacked and boarded a Chinese vessel, MV HAILUFANG II, off the coast of Côte d’Ivoire, and directed it towards Nigerian waters. They were arrested by the Nigerian Navy which dispatched a ship to intercept the vessel after it got an alert. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The prosecution of the pirates would be the first trial of bandits arrested in international waters under the Suppression of Piracy and Other Maritime Offences (SPOMO) Act signed into law in June, 2020, by President Muhammadu Buhari. The law makes Nigeria the first country in West and Central Africa to have a distinct anti-piracy legislation. Jamoh who was represented by NIMASA’s Head of Legal Services, Mr. Victor Egejuru, assured that with the anti-piracy law, there was ample legal framework to prosecute pirates and other perpetrators of maritime offences in the country to bring the menace to the barest minimum. The Commander of the Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) Beecroft, Commodore Ibrahim Shettima, who gave details of the naval operation, said the vessel had 18 crew members comprising Chinese, Ghanaians and Ivorians. Sea robbery: NPA, Navy join forces to tackle activities at illegal jetties, terminals Blow-up ships involved in illegal oil bunkering NIMASA, Navy arrest 16 stowaways on U.S.-bound vessel