The camps of Governor Godwin Obaseki and the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, in Edo State are both expressing optimism that they will clinch the ticket of the party for the forthcoming 2020 governorship election in the state. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had said it would work out the modalities for the completion of preparation of the Edo and Ondo states governorship elections. Loyalists and foot soldiers of both factions who spoke to Daily Trust, said though the focus now is to collectively work towards halting the spread of coronavirus in the state, they would work to secure the ticket whenever the primary is held. The Edo APC has been engulfed in a crisis of supremacy between Oshiomhole and Obaseki who succeeded the former as the governor of the state. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The development gave birth to the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) and the eventual division of the party into two factions. Aslem Ojezua, who was the chairman before the crack, leads Obaseki’s faction as its chairman, while the Oshiomhole faction has Col. David Imuse (rtd) as its chairman. While the Obaseki group is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that the incumbent governor gets the ticket, Oshiomhole’s faction is also bent on stopping him from getting a second term. Those contesting the APC governorship in the state are Governor Obaseki, former deputy governor Dr Pius Odubu, Chris Ogiemwonyi, Gen. Charles Airhiavbere rtd, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and former House Rep member, Johnson Aigbonamyima, among others. Some weeks ago, Oshiomhole’s faction organised a mock primary at the residence of former deputy governor Lucky Imasuen to pick a consensus candidate among Odubu, Ogiemwonyi, Ize-Iyamu and Airhiavbere. The exercise ended up in a fiasco as some of the aspirants alleged that the process was manipulated. Speaking with our reporter on the forthcoming primary, Henry Idahagbon noted that the primary focus of the group now is not about the primary but how to join hands with other Nigerians to free the state and Nigeria and the world at large from the coronavirus pandemic. Idahagbon, who is a member of Oshiomhole’s faction, said they are doing less politicking but more of effort for humanity and that after the pandemic they could talk about primary and politics. “Nobody has been endorsed and the field is open to all aspirants including Governor Obaseki because he is still a member of our party. So nobody has been endorsed and as I said, this is not a time for politicking, this is time for us to come together as a people and a state to fight the pandemic,” he said. On the issue of consensus for the group, Idahagbon said politics is about negotiation and give and take. “When we get there, we will have a candidate for the election,” he added. On his part, Aslem Ojezua said whenever the primary is fixed by the party, they are ready for it. When asked if the faction has a plan B, he said: “I think it is the governor that can answer that question.” Also speaking, Monday Osagbovo, a loyalist of Governor Obaseki, said at the moment nothing is more important to them than curtailing the COVID-19 pandemic. According to him, the governor has the right of first refusal and that Edo has a governor under APC who is also working. “So when the party guideline is out we will go on but what we are talking about now is coronavirus and not election because election will come and go but people have to be safe” According to him, they are not considering a plan B, because the governor will get the ticket and will also win the election. Will Oshiomhole, Obaseki’s feud affect APC’s chances in Edo guber? Edo 2020: Issues as fight over ticket gets messier Oshiomhole vs Obaseki: Inside feud tearing APC apart