Business development experts have advised micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the country to reinvent their current business models for sustainability in the face of the current COVID-19 pandemic to enable them leverage growth opportunities in the post-pandemic era. The experts gave the advice during the panel’s discussion at a Webinar session organized by the Development Bank of Nigeria Plc (DMB) with the theme ‘Alternative Financing Options for Sustainable Growth Post COVID-19 Lockdown’ on Tuesday. Panelists on the session comprise the CEO & Partner, South Bridge Group, Mr. Andrew Alli; CEO of Emerging Africa Capital, Mrs. Toyin Sanni; Head SME, FCMB, Mr. George Ogbonnaya; and Managing Director, Urban Shelter, Hajiya Sa’adiya Aminu. While dissecting the current implications of the pandemic on the Nigerian economy, the panelists noted that MSMEs were the hardest hit by the crisis, as they have limited access to capital and now have to depend on few customer base. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here They, however, stressed that the current crisis will soon be over and that only SMEs with innovative thinking and clear vision will be able to take advantage of the new normal. In his comments, Alli said: “The crisis will end, and we will return to a period of growth. A lot of things will likely change because of this pandemic. So, you also need to prepare for that era. You have to be innovative, have a clear vision, be ahead of the curve to take advantage of the new normal.” On alternative sources of funding for MSMEs, George Ogbonnaya predicted that investors would be frugal in the post COVID-19 era and will only be attracted to businesses that align purpose with strategic direction. On her part, Toyin Sanni admonished small business owners to ‘COVID-Proof’ their business, as quality and branded digital presence will stand as distinguishing factors in the present and post COVID-19 era. “Quality and how you distinguish your brand from competitors will be very important. So, while saving as much as you can during this period, you should also invest in your brand and digitize your business. I would like to use the term ‘COVID-Proof’ for your business”, she said. As an advisory, Sa’adiya Aliyu Aminu said being the major drivers, MSMEs would be crucial to reviving the Nigerian economy just like the sector did after the 2015 recession. She urged the Federal Government to show more commitment in implementing the Made-in-Nigeria policy to promote local production and patronage and curb capital flight after the pandemic.  How the COVID-19 pandemic is affecting small business operators How loan moratorium, interest rate reduction boost farmers’ hope How SMEs will survive economic hardship — Experts