Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has commissioned a 100-bed isolation centre with a full complement of medical equipment at the Abia State Specialist hospital, Amachara, Umuahia South Local Government Area. Speaking while commissioning the facility, the Governor commended CACOVID, the Private Sector Coalition Against Covid-19 where Access Bank is a partner for donating the facility to the State Government for the treatment of coronavirus patients. According to the Governor the strategy in Abia State is to keep the virus away from the State and its environs and to be able to nurse patients back to life. He further stated that the facility will boost the State’s capacity to deal with the pandemic and pointed out that his administration is working very hard in this direction. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He disclosed that soon, the state would have three molecular labs to join the league of those testing for Coronavirus within their States, adding that plans are under way for the training of more medical lab technicians to compliment those already working in the labs. He promised to preserve and put to use all the equipment given to the State as they are timeless equipment that would be useful beyond COVID-19 pandemic period. Dr. Ikpeazu also said that Abia would continue to be vigilant, assuring that the battle against Covid-19 is an ongoing one. He described the State goverment’s partnership with the Access Bank as a strategic one that would benefit the citizens of the State and assured to sustain the relationship with the bank. Earlier, the Zonal Head, Access Bank Plc,. Kennedy Ojukwu, who spoke on behalf of Access Bank CEO and Co-Chair of CACOVID, Herbert Wigwe. said that the 100-bed isolation centre donated for the use of Abia people is the bank’s support to the fight against Covid-19 in the State.  CBN to offer grants in race for Covid-19 vaccine How states are bracing up against COVID-19 BUA Group donates N3.3bn to fight COVID-19 in Kano, Lagos