The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) through its Primary Healthcare Board has supported 17 graded chiefs with hand and respiratory hygiene materials and non-contact digital infra-red thermometers as part of efforts to curb the spread of COVID-19. The FCT Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, who presented the items to the Agaba of Jiwa Kingdom, Alhaji Idris Musa, said the support was to guard against the spread of COVID-19 in view of the large number of people that visit the palace of traditional rulers for counselling. Dr. Aliyu, who was represented by the acting Executive Secretary of the FCT Primary Health Care Board, Dr. Iwot Ndaeyo, also noted that when properly used, the medical equipment would help in curtailing community transmission of the virus. The minister, who noted that community spread of the virus was no more in doubt, urged the traditional institutions, saying, “the role of traditional rulers in the FCT cannot be overemphasised. There are three approaches to COVID-19 response in the FCT from the health sector itself: primary health sector, the public health sector and the secondary health sector, which will also pass through the tertiary and specialist hospitals. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “The response from the primary health care sector fits into the community response too. They are all represented here. The response may appear belated, but it has to take a lot of planning and focused strategic activities to ensure that we work together as a team and reactivate that partnership that can make things to happen. “Prevention and control are very critical, particularly hand and respiratory hygiene, and using non-contact infra-red digital thermometer that could help us to detect some of the major symptoms of the disease known as COVID-19’’. Receiving the items on behalf of the traditional rulers in the FCT, the Agaba of Jiwa,  Alhaji Idris Musa, described the support as the right step in the right direction, stressing that with the support, traditional rulers would have a sense of belonging.  COVID-19: FCT Minister tasks political leaders on community sensitization COVID-19: Northern traditional rulers demand FG to halt repatriation of almajiris COVID-19: Foundation donates palliatives to  FCTA