The Federal Government has dispatched a team from the Federal Ministry of Health to Sokoto and Borno states on fact finding and support missions over the rising cases of COVID-19 and unrelated deaths in the two states. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, said this at the 32nd joint national briefing of the Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19 in Abuja yesterday. According to him, the medical team will engage with the state authorities and determine material and technical needs. “A most immediate probability is the prioritization of these states for the deployment of repurposed Gene Xpert machines as soon as we start receiving the cartridges in a few weeks to bring speed to testing,” Ehanire said. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He also said the situation in Kano had largely stabilized, as result of the good relationship between the visiting federal task team and Kano State task force on COVID-19. He said, “One manifestation of this being the high number of new cases recorded daily from the fact that all labs in Kano are now functioning and clearing the sample backlog, with over 350 tests done daily. The state government has been doing well in opening up more treatment and Isolation centers.” The minister said part of the mission in Kano is to assist state pathologists and scientists to unravel the mysteries around unexplained deaths in some states and that the tools for forensic investigation have been jointly developed for a uniform approach and balanced results. Ehanire also said the government was able to persuade Mrs. Susan Idoko-Okpe, the reported index case in Benue, to allow a sample to be taken to the laboratory for testing on Thursday and the result was being awaited any time now and it will be given to her in person. The minister, however, said while patients may disclose their result by themselves, the FMoH cannot do so, except with the permission of those concerned. Ehanire added that 193 new COVID-19 cases were confirmed in the past day in 15 states with Lagos(58), Kano(46), Jigawa(35), Yobe (12), FCT(nine), Ogun(seven), Plateau(five), Gombe(five)  Imo(four), Edo(three), Kwara(three), Borno(three), Bauchi (one), Nasarawa (one), Ondo(one), bringing the total number of confirmed cases in Nigeria over the 5,000 line to 5,162 in 34 States and the FCT. “Till date, 1180 patients have been treated and discharged from hospital care and 167 deaths have sadly been recorded. The case gender ratio remains about 70 to 30 percent for men and women respectively, while case fatality hovers around 3 percent. COVID-19: FG warns doctors, other against unauthorised treatment of patients COVID-19: FG lists Lagos, FCT, Kano, Ogun, Kaduna, Sokoto for WHO drug trials COVID-19: FG admits signing up for drug trials