 A woman dumped her one-week old baby in a bush at Anguwar Samu in Tugan-Maje community of Gwagwalada Area Council, Daily Trust gathered. A resident of the area, Michael Thaddeus, who discovered the baby, said it was found in the bush covered with clothes on Wednesday around 12:00am. Thaddeus said, “I was inside the house when I heard the cry of the baby girl and I rushed out and discovered it wrapped in clothes and I called the police who came and carried her.” Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here When contacted, the Zuba Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Alkali Lamido, confirmed the incident, saying the baby would be handed over to the Social Welfare Department of Gwagwalada Area Council. Also, in Machada community of the area council, suspected armed robbers shot dead a 35-year-old member of a vigilante group. A resident of the area, simply identified as Abdullahi, said the incident happened on Tuesday when the suspected robbers invaded the deceased’s house and forced the door open around 1:00am. Abdullahi said two among the robbers entered the room and dragged the deceased out, collected his handset and shot him before they fled. He added that, “Some residents suspected that the armed robbers’ target was to kill the vigilante man because he had always given them tough time whenever they wanted to carry out robbery operation in the area.” He further said the remains of the deceased, who was a native of Toto Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, had since been buried by his relatives according to Islamic rites. The DPO of Zuba, CSP Alkali Lamido, confirmed the incident, saying two suspects had been arrested in connection with the incident. CSP Lamido gave the names of the two suspects as; Abdullahi Yusuf 35 and Tochukwu, 26, adding that both reside in Madallah, Niger State. The DPO, who said the two suspects led the police to arrest eight more persons in connection with the killing, added that they had been handed over to the FCT Criminal Investigation Department (CID).  Woman dumps newborn baby inside bush in Abuja suburb Woman dumps newly born baby at Giri 1-month-old baby found on refuse dump in Zuba