Standard Chartered has announced $11.8 million donations to Red Cross, UNICEF and local non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and Government Partners providing emergency relief in countries across Africa and the Middle East impacted by COVID-19. A statement detailing the donations indicated that they were allocated on the ground where they could provide rapid and targeted impact. Standard Chartered pledged N3.55 million to the Red Cross for urgent medical support in nine markets across Africa, $3.25 million to UNICEF for the immediate protection and education of vulnerable children in Pakistan and across eight markets in Africa. On top of $6.8 million donations to the Red Cross and UNICEF in the region, Standard Chartered has pledged a further $5 million for local NGO and Government partners across Africa and the Middle East to bring the total committed to USD11.8 million. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “The donations will contribute to programmes providing urgent medical support and the protection and education of vulnerable children, as well as other efforts to ensure the health, safety and protection of communities across Africa and the Middle East,” the statement said. Regional CEO, Standard Chartered Africa and the Middle East, Sunil Kaushal, said, “We are proud to be able to contribute to Red Cross and UNICEF programmes that reach the most vulnerable people in our communities. “By working with Red Cross and UNICEF, we can support those affected by this crisis and together, overcome the adversities we currently face.” Similarly, the Regional Director for Africa, at the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, Dr. Simon Missiri appreciated Standard Chartered’s generous donation. Director, UNICEF Private Fundraising and Partnerships Division, Gary Stahl, said with the majority of the world’s children living with some form of pandemic-related movement restrictions and 1.3 billion children around the globe affected by school closures, UNICEF’s work for children has never been more critical than now. 