The APC manifesto pledged to effect reforms aimed at enhancing the performance of the judiciary in Nigeria. It specifically promised to reform and strengthen the justice system for efficient administration and dispensation of justice with the creation of special courts for accelerated hearing of corruption, drug trafficking, terrorism and similar cases. But several stakeholders in the justice sector spoken to on the performance of the government in this regard believe that not much has been done by the government to keep the promise. They said although the APC government professed change and had increased the workload of the judiciary through its emphasis on prosecution, particularly of high profile cases, it had not provided adequate resources for the judiciary and had not also paid attention to the challenges facing the sector. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Prof. Yemi Akinseye-George (SAN), said, “You are giving more work and demanding more from the judiciary without paying attention to the resources they need. So, there is an imbalance.” Prof. Akiseye-George added that this lack of attention was why some of the lofty provisions of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) had not been implemented. He further said, “We are supposed to have short adjournments, the day-to-day trial of cases and the use of electronic recording and performance monitoring and evaluation – all of these things are not in place. That is why Transparency International does not think the government has done enough. That is one of the reasons because they have not paid adequate attention to the judiciary; which is one of the major partners in the fight against graft.” A retired Justice of the Supreme Court, Kumai Bayang Akaahs, said it remained difficult to see any improvement as regards enhancing the judiciary. Justice Akaahs said, “For example, the welfare of the judges, nobody sees anything. Judges retire and have nowhere to move into,” and added that except for the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), other retired justices had nothing to show for all their years of serving the country. He, therefore, suggested that the Federal Government should take a leaf from what the Lagos State Government was doing as regards the welfare of its judges. Akaahs further said, “Happily, the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, was the attorney general when that policy was started. That by the time a judge is appointed, particularly at the Supreme Court, he should move into a house where he will retire into, not when you retire you will be thrown out and you will have to start looking for how to fend for yourself.” Dr. Umar Gwandu, the spokesman of the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, said the office of the AGF “is compiling a comprehensive report on the issue. “Reforms in the Nigerian justice system are multifaceted and multi-dimensional. Improved access to justice, speedy dispensation of justice and reforms in the correctional service are among the areas in the reform.” Agenda for new CJN Muhammad confirmed as CJN, says corruption more at lower courts Reforming the judiciary through transparent appointment of judges