The Ekiti State government has trained 100 civil servants to enforce protocols in ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) on containing the spread of the coronavirus scourge. The trainees, called COVID-19 Response Officers (CROs), were mandated to enforce the protocols of social distancing and use of sanitizers and face masks by all workers across MDAs, to checkmate the spread of the pandemic that had killed two persons in the state. Although the state civil service had been shut since March 29, following the threat posed by the outbreak of COVID-19, Governor Kayode Fayemi had recalled senior officers on grade level 13 and above to undertake skeletal works. The Head of Service, Mrs Peju Babafemi, addressing the workers on Friday during a tour of the State Secretariat to assess the level of compliance with the COVID-19 guidelines, said workers as good partners, must help the state government to overcome the present challenge. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Babafemi commended Gov Fayemi, for his commitment to providing a hygienic work environment for the staff through the provision of functional rest rooms and hand washing facilities. She said, “I challenge the COVID-19 Response Officers (CROs) to ensure that they enforce total compliance with all the protocols to keep Ekiti workers healthy. “The effective control of the pandemic rests on the collective action. For government’s efforts to yield results, everyone must contribute positively and responsibly in the battle against coronavirus”. The HoS disclosed that a seven-man Task Force had been inaugurated to pursue the eradication of open defecation in the state civil service and make Ekiti achieve Open Defecation Free Status in  2022. “The Ekiti State government, on February 20, 2020, during the launch of the ‘Roadmap of Making Ekiti State Open  Defecation-Free by 2022’, declared that all government buildings and offices should have functional toilets before the end of 2020, as part of the strategies to end the menace  of open defecation. “Functional public toilets are now available at the State Secretariat Complex and other offices, in addition to public hand washing stations. This is an eloquent testimony to the fact that Gov Fayemi is committed to the eradication of open defecation,” she added. Babafemi explained that the terms of reference for the Task Force shall  include ensuring hygienic environment at the State Secretariat and other government offices, addressing issues bordering on provision of  water, disinfection of facilities  and matters that may threaten the health  of  workers at the work place. She charged the Task Force to ensure that the facilities provided by government were well-utilised and maintained to justify the funds expended on them.  Why senior civil servants in Ekiti are yet to get minimum wage—Fayemi Governors agree on 14 days interstate COVID-19 lockdown COVID-19: Ekiti governor imposes curfew, bans movements