A traditional marriage was conducted at the weekend by proxy in Gboko Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State following the implementation of the COVID-19 lockdown directive by the Federal Government which prevented the couple from being present together for the ceremony. Daily Trust reports that the groom, who resides in Lagos State, could not travel to Benue State to physically tie the knot with his bride on the scheduled, Saturday, May 9, 2020 as a result of the ban on interstate travel across the country in an attempt to fight coronavirus. The bride, Jane Mwuese Jegu of Ipav, Gboko LGA, therefore, agreed to traditionally hook her groom, Engr. Timothy Aindohemba Tim of Ikyuravtiev, Katsina Ala LGA, both in Benue State by proxy after effort to ensure the physical presence of the groom failed. Father of the groom, 62-year-old Thomas Terver Tim, however, stood in for his son while the couple’s engagement photo was displayed to symbolise the groom’s presence at the home of the bride in Tse Andrew Jegu, Kilometre 5, Gboko- Mkar road where the marriage took place in Ipav Gboko LGA. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Our correspondent gathered that the couple (groom, a marine engineer and bride, a graduate) had been in courtship for over seven years and concluded marriage plan since January this year with the date fixed for May 9 and their invitation card sent out months ago before the COVID-19 lockdown thwarted their arrangement. It was learnt that the closure of borders by the Benue State Government as well as the restrictions on movement in Lagos State by the federal government made it impossible for the groom to travel from Lagos to Benue State for the traditional marriage as even the Benue State Action Committee against COVID-19 insisted on quarantining the groom for 14-days if he attempted the journey. The groom had told newsmen by telephone that; “as a marine engineer, the condition given by the Benue state government was impossible for me because my office cannot grant me leave for that long. “Another challenge was that the Lagos state government would have quarantined me and my wife if we must return to the state after the wedding.” On her part, the bride said; “when it became impossible for my husband to beat the COVID-19 lockdown imposed by both Lagos and Benue governments, we resolved that, instead of incurring the expenses of reorganizing and rescheduling the wedding program, let’s do it by proxy. “And there is no problem about this as you can see me in my happiest moment now. “Today is my day, in fact both parents of mine and my husband are happily doing the needful.” Benue extends lockdown by 2weeks, slashes 2020 budget How COVID-19 disrupted our wedding ceremonies – Intending couples COVID-19: Benue releases results of 27 suspected cases