The African Development Bank (AfDB), has disclosed that through its African Investment Forum (AIF) launched in 2018, it raised $78 billion (about N30.42 trillion) investment interest so far. This is even as maintained that efforts were being intensified by its Board and management to attract about $300 billion of investments into Africa over the next eight years. The development finance institution gave these figures in a document summarizing some of its key achievements recorded as its President, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina , completes his first tenure in office this month. At the inaugural forum on the AIF which was held in Johannesburg, South Africa, the bank mobilised $38.7bn of investment interests for Africa in less than 72 hours while at the second edition held last November, it also mobilized $40.1bn of investment interests for businesses on the African continent. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Based on its recent reform initiatives targeted at far-reaching socio-economic transformation of African countries, the AfDB maintained its AAA ratings by all the four major global rating agencies, four years in a row. According to the analysis, the bank has sustained Africa’s development drives through its High 5 Strategic Priorities that include Light up and Power Africa; Feed Africa; Industrialize Africa; Integrate Africa; and Improve the quality of life for Africans, to achieve 90% of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) targets. Other key successes recorded by the development institution, based on the statement sourced by Daily Trust, include its direct impact on 333 million lives, comprising 18m people that were connected to electricity; 141m people gained access to improved agricultural technologies, while 13m people gained from private sector investment projects. A further analysis of the bank’s performance showed that 101m people gained access to better transport services and 60m others had improved access to water and sanitation. Based on its programme implementation and other intervention initiatives, the bank’s board and management projected that in another eight years, AfDB will help 105m people with access to electricity, 204m people will gain in from agricultural technologies, 23m people will benefit from investee private sector firms, 252m people for improved transport services, and 128m people for improved water and sanitation. AIF: Partners reaffirm commitment to close Africa’s infrastructure gap AfDB targets larger share of $5trn ETFAs for Africa’s capital markets AfDB announces $1bn synthetic transaction for lending