…appeals for support, understanding in face of new economic reality Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom state has reiterated that his administration’s commitment towards the welfare of workers remains strong and abiding. The governor revealed this in his message of solidarity to workers in the state on the commemoration of May 1 Workers’ Day celebration, pointing out ways this commitment was manifested. “In spite of this dire and challenging economic times, we were able to pay the salary of our workers on April 24th – a clear one week to the end of the month. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “Last year in my May Day speech, I had stated that once the modalities for the payment of the new minimum wage were worked out, that we will commence the payment. As you can attest, we commenced the payment of the new minimum wage last December,” he said. The state chief executive further noted, “our affordable Mass Housing Scheme for workers is on-going. We are also making concerted efforts at clearing inherited arrears of gratuities, the first set of such, which was done upon my assumption of office, in May 2015, where a ten-year backlog was cleared to the joy and eternal gratitude of the workers. Also, we are facilitating prompt handling of promotion processes alongside human capacity development through strategic trainings”. Governor Udom however regretted that the new reality, brought about by the global pandemic – covid-19, has crumbled world economy, caused huge global unemployment and threatened nations with unprecedented recession. He stated that Nigeria which is a mono-economy sustained by oil needs strategic reengineering. “There is glut in the market and our oil today sells under 30 dollars per barrel – far below the budgetary benchmark of $57 barrel per day. This in simple terms means our budget earlier passed and assented into law by me would have to be revised downward. With this revision will come some challenges in the implementation of capital and recurrent expenditures. “I know I can always count on your support and understanding as we deal with this new reality”. He appealed. He lauded the hard work and sense of commitment displayed by health workers in the state in managing the infection since it was first recorded in the state. “Let me also commend the passion and commitment of our health care workers – the physicians, nurses and others for working tirelessly to ensure the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic is reduced to its minimum. You all truly deserve our eternal gratitude,” he stated. The governor stated that his administration’s proactiveness in investing in the state health sector has paid off. I will implement minimum wage in A/Ibom, says Gov Udom Akwa Ibom govt pays N30,000 minimum wage with arrears I will start paying minimum wage, when NSIWC releases template - Obiano