The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has rejected the alleged moves by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, to pass the Infectious Disease Control Bill without recourse to the laid down procedure of public hearing to allow Nigerians participate in the process of making the law. The party in a statement Friday, by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan  described the alleged moves to shut out Nigerians from public debate on the bill as ominous. The PDP urged its members in both the House of Representatives and Senate to stand firm against the passage of the bill until there is a public hearing to get the inputs of Nigerians. “It raises suspicions of sinister objectives as the nation combats the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. This is especially as the bill seeks to prescribe clauses on critical issues, particularly that of vaccination, which has become globally controversial in the face of raging conspiracy theories on the COVID-19 pandemic. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “The PDP is alarmed that such approach is already worsening public mistrust in the polity as well as heightening apprehension over the intentions of the presiding officers of the House of Representatives and the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration at this critical time. “The PDP insists that Nigerians must be carried along in the decision-making process of such a critical legislation, which seeks to make provisions that will directly affect their health as well as overall individual and collective safety and wellbeing. “The party stresses that anything short of that would be counterproductive and capable of breeding an avoidable public resistance, especially given the deepening fear and anxiety in the polity over the COVID-19 pandemic. “The PDP therefore counsels the Speaker of the House of Representative to immediately call himself to order and allow for public hearing on the bill,” the party said.  COVID-19: Reps seek 2 months free power supply to Nigerians, mulls second stimulus Bill After COVID-19 break, legislative interventions, others await lawmakers 5G and NASS vaccination conspiracy theory