As the rising cost of doing business continues to take huge toll on their members; operations, the Nigerian Association of Chamber of Commerce Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) and Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) have urged the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) to help in the implementation of the 30 percent reduction in truck haulage cost. NACCIMA, MAN and some stakeholders, made this appeal at a meeting convened by NSC in Lagos. While commending the Council for the move to get truckers reduce their charges under the COVID-19 pandemic, but requested for an urgent implementation, saying that the reduction was yet to be implemented by truckers. At the meeting, the NACCIMA President, Iyalode Alaba-Lawson, commended the Council for bringing port agencies to work together under the Maritime Task Team for COVID-19. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here She said: “It is a good development to have this 30 percent reduction in truck haulage cost, but is there a place someone can report when charged higher. In reality the service still costs more than the stipulated prices. Since, there is reduction we want to be able to take advantage of this. Is there a body to enforce this 30 percent reduction and penalize defaulting truckers? “We hope that this unity continues because when you come together you recognize your overlapping functions. Some of us who require services of different agencies get our goods delayed because this agency will inspect and that agency will also have to re-inspect in a way that causes unnecessary delays,” the industrialist added. According to her, the move by NSC to unite other agencies showed the traits of a good port economic regulator. In his remarks, Vice President, MAN, Mr. John Aluya said manufacturers were excited about demurrage waivers and storage charges, however, he opined that the free period should not be closed in May. “I want to appreciate NSC for providing the direction as such turbulent times occasioned by the pandemic. I hope you wouldn’t relent because more challenges are coming,” he said. Earlier, the Executive Secretary of NSC, Mr. Hassan Bello had briefed the stakeholders on the activities of the Council during the lockdown as well as other interventions to enhance port operations. Covid-19: Shippers' Council pushes for reduction in cost of haulage at seaport Lockdown stalls trapped export goods’ release at borders – MAN Indigenous importers may abandon Nigerian ports over high charges