Some residents of Karu, a satellite town in Abuja yesterday called on the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) to curb the influx of violators of lockdown from Nasarawa State axis. The residents told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at Mararaba, that the increasing influx of people, mostly at night, from the neighbouring Nasarawa State into Abuja during this coronavirus pandemic could have adverse consequences. They therefore urged the FCTA to review its security strategies to ensure effective closure of its boundaries with neighbouring states to checkmate further spread of the disease. The respondents also advised the administration to be proactive in its response to stop the influx. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Mr Abbas Elkanem, a cab driver, told NAN it has become imperative for the FCTA to intensify its security checks and tighten all the loopholes to avoid people with COVID-19 sneaking into the territory. He noted that there are 15 existing “inner roads from Nasarawa State into Abuja”, but the enforcement task force was only at one point. Elkanem said most people trooped in at night and most of them usually do not pass through the regular checkpoint to avoid the security checks. “I am talking authoritatively as a driver; we know all the corners and inner roads from Nasarawa State into Abuja. “Under this lockdown I can take anybody from Nasarawa State into Abuja through the inner roads so long the person is ready to pay,’’ he said. A check conducted by NAN identified some of the inner roads from Nasarawa State into Abuja as Karu market, Cemetery, Abattoir, Gagawa, Nyanya market, Kugbo and Timber shade, among others. The investigation also revealed that though some of the roads are rough and some are not too motorable, most drivers manoeuvre their ways to beat the control post. Another driver told NAN on condition of anonymity that though the roads are very rough, he preferred to ply them to avoid the long queue at the check point. He said there are times commuters would be in the queue for over two hours and in the end the security operatives would turn them back without allowing them to cross into Abuja. One of the Okada riders, Malam Abdulmumin, said it is a brisk business and that picking a passenger from Nyanya to Kugbo, avoiding the security check will cost N300 as against N100. Abdulmumin said he makes more than 20 trips in a day once there are passengers because of his familiarity with all the free routes for Okada riders. Malam Abubakar Pategi, a driver, also said many people still travel without respecting government’s directive and expert advice. He said some of the vehicles going to places like Keffi, Lafia and Makurdi, are overloaded and without any protective measures. Pategi claimed that most of the drivers bribed their way from one check point to another till they get to their final destinations to the detriment of the passengers that would pay the hiked fare. A resident of Tipper garage in Mararaba told NAN on condition of anonymity that a lot of people still travel against government’s instructions without adherence to the measures. (NAN)  COVID-19: Security agents lack safety kits, face other hurdles in Abuja, Nasarawa Etsu Karu solicits support from FCTA on infrastructure No explosion in Karu – FCTA