One hundred and thirty-five offenders have been convicted by a mobile court in Sagamu, Ogun State, for violating the lockdown order imposed by the state government in its efforts to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease. The offenders were charged yesterday with conducting themselves in a manner likely to cause a breach of the peace by “deliberately failing to comply with the federal and state government lockdown order.” They all pleaded guilty and prayed the court to temper justice with mercy. Magistrate Adebakin Soyoye discharged 11 out of the 135 offenders, while 124 were asked to pay a fine of N1,000, or render an hour community service. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here After the judgment, 73 convicts paid fines, while 51 performed community service. The Head of Operations, Vehicle Inspection Office (VIO), Ogun State, Taofeek Babalola, lamented the rate at which people were violating the stay-at-home order. Babalola urged transport operators and residents to cooperate with the government by complying with all directives in order to collectively stop the spread of Covid-19 in the state. In a related coronavirus development, the Ogun State government has opted for a virtual celebration of this year’s edition of the Children’s Day. The state’s Commissioner for Women Affairs, Mrs Funmi Afuwape, in a statement she issued yesterday, said the decision was in compliance with the safety measures of keeping physical distancing to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease. Afuwape said activities lined up for the day included a talent hunt for 20 secondary school students each from the three senatorial districts, who will  participate in the following categories: poem recitation on the theme, cultural display on Covid-19 and a quiz contest, as well as a music competition with focus on the keyboard, trumpet and saxophone.  FRSC arrests 776 over inter-state lockdown violation Strippers, clubbers, others convicted for violating lockdown in Lagos Kaduna realises N1.9m from lockdown violators in 2 days