The Managing Director of Med-View Airline, Alhaji Muneer Bankole, yesterday, urged the Federal Government to fast-track its intervention plans for the airlines sub-sector in the country. Alhaji Bankole also called on the government to reopen the airspace for flight operations in the next few weeks, starting with domestic flights. He said urgent intervention was critical to sustain safety which had been achieved in the industry in the past few years, saying 90 per cent of workers now were at home. “Aviation needs palliatives to bring life back to it. 90 per cent of workers are at home currently. The government should think very critically about the issue of palliatives to the sector. The industry is dying. The sincerity of what we are saying is that the government should see its palliative as a means of saving lives, fastest means of bringing back economy to live and improving the lives of everybody,” he said. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here In an interview with newsmen yesterday, Bankole also charged the government to invest in Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facilities to save foreign exchange for airline operators. Bankole noted that the aviation industry was the worst hit by the pandemic, saying to revive the sector, government needed to give operators palliatives to mitigate the effect of the losses on operations of the airlines. He explained that most operators found it difficult to fulfill welfare obligations to staff, stressing that most were struggling to ensure regular payment of salaries. He stated that the grounding of aircraft for almost two months would have led to Airworthiness Directives (ADs) on them, while corrosion would have increased due to lack of use thereby requiring maintenance service. He said: “When you fly 200 hours, there are certain checks you do, when you increase that to 400 hours, there are certain checks you need to do again. Also, when you don’t fly again, you still need to carry out some checks on your aircraft because corrosion will set in and some of the pilots’ licenses would have expired. On the 2020 Hajj, Bankole said Med-View would participate in the airlift, but agreed that a lot of work still needed to be done to ensure a safe clime for participants. Review of Nigeria’s 90 air pacts long overdue - Stakeholders Med-View pledges hitch-free 2019 Hajj operations Med-View CEO urges implementation of VAT waiver for airlines