A Senior Council Member of the Kano Emirate Council, Jarman Kano, Professor Isa Hashim died on Sunday at the age of 86 after a prolonged illness. Born in 1934, late Jarman Kano had been sick for a long time before he finally passed on yesterday, Daily Trust, learned. The funeral prayer for the remains of the late Jarma took place at the Emir of Kano’s palace at 11 am yesterday. Confirming the death to Daily Trust, a palace aide, Alhaji Tijjani Saraki, said, “I was informed about the death of late Jarman Kano by Makaman Kano, Alhaji Sarki Ibrahim Makaman, who said the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero would attend the funeral prayer scheduled to take place at Kofar Kudu.” He was appointed Jarman Kano by the late Emir of Kano, Alhaji Ado Bayero following the death of the former Jarman Kano and chairman of Kabo Air, late Alhaji Muhammadu Adamu Dankabo. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here This is coming less than 24 hours after the death of the emir of Rano in Kano State, Tafida Abubakar. Kano’s spike in deaths The emir’s death and that of Isa has added to the list of high profile deaths in Kano in recent times. It started peaking about two weeks ago as Daily Trust reported on April 21, that over 150 people who died in Kano within a space of about three days were buried in three cemeteries. Grave diggers in the affected cemeteries said the frequency of burials was unusual compared to the number of people buried before the coronavirus outbreak. With hundreds of deaths recorded in the state in the last couple of weeks, the state Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammed Garba said the deaths were unconnected to the COVID-19, but mostly caused by complications from other health conditions. The Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire said the unexplained deaths were not out of the ordinary. During a briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 earlier in the week, the minister said, “There’s national concern about the sharp increase of COVID-19 positive cases in Kano, concentrated in seven municipal council areas and also about certain so-called ‘unexplained’ deaths. The authorities have explained that the latter were not out of the ordinary.” Why I chose Wambai  as Galadiman Kano  – Emir Sanusi Ciroman Kano: The Road Not Taken by Sanusi Bayero Emir of Kano returns from medical trip