Mask-wearing seven-year old Anas drew attention quickly despite his self-effacing and diffident deportment. The upbeat boy knew the use of the covering over his nose and mouth even though it is the exact opposite of how a protective garb should look like.  Anas’ cheap white cloth mask had gone dirty from poor handling. When asked why he was wearing a mask, little Anas just said “coronavirus”. He said he was aware of the presence of COVID-19 in Sokoto, therefore wearing the small mask he bought at N10 at Kofar Bai area behind Sultan’s Palace.“The covering is to protect me against corona,” he added. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The fear of COVID-19 in Sokoto is making more people use face masks. The death of some known people, and an increasing number of coronavirus cases, changed perception of many in the state about the existence of the dreaded disease. Sokoto has so far recoded over 100 cases of COVID-19 and 12 deaths. Thirty-year-old  Isah Aliyu Galadanchi had to remove the mask before his aunt could recognise him when they exchanged greetings. Isah said he was among those who were mindless of every warning about COVID-19.  But the recent happenings in Sokoto and the governor’s broadcast changed his perception about the danger lurking around. “I can’t risk chances of contact with a person who may be infected. I wear my mask all day and only remove it when going to bed. I have come to realise that COVID-19 is real.” Another Sokoto resident, Zainab Rufai, said: “With the way the coronavirus is spreading, I now recognise the urgent need for everyone to take responsibility. We need to observe safety protocols against COVID-19.” However, many others in the state were seen without the face mask and not observing the other safety measures against coronavirus. Governor Aminu Tambuwal had in a recent broadcast appealed to people to adhere to all safety measures against COVID-19. “I once again appeal to the people of Sokoto State to come to the realisation that COVID-19 is real. We must, therefore, continue to step up our game in observing laid down measures and rules and protocols by the World Health  Organisation, WHO, Federal Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health here in Sokoto.” “We must continue to observe social distancing, frequent washing of hands and limiting our contacts.” Also, The Sokoto State government at the weekend flagged off the distribution of two million face masks across the 23 local government areas of the state. Commissioner for Health and Chairman, State COVID-19 Taskforce Committee, Dr Ali Inname, described the wearing of face mask as necessary where there is no total lockdown to check the spread of the virus. According to Inname, experts are of the view that while homemade mask cannot guarantee absolute protection, it can help prevent the community spread of the virus.  COVID-19: How to use, care for face masks Zamfara confirms two COVID-19 cases The mystery source and sure spread of Sokoto’s COVID-19 cases