…investors’ interest in bonds, cryptocurrencies upswing Despite the devastating impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on global economies, particularly on the investment markets, there are strong indications that trading in some bourses were upswing over the past three months with investors gaining amid the economic lull. For instance, a news analysis and infographic illustrations of some markets’ trends sourced from Kryptoszene.de website indicated  that around €170 billion worth of DAX shares were traded via Deutsche Börse AG in March, representing over €103 billion above the €63.5 billion worth of shares traded in December 2019. DAX is a German blue chip stock market index that tracks the performance of the 30 largest companies trading on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange (FSE) Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Similarly, trading volumes for ETFs, an investment fund traded on stock exchanges holding assets such as stocks, commodities, or bonds, also increased substantially since COVID-19 outbreak globally. The company’s turnover in March was 189% higher than in the same month last year. According to the report, the rising demand for shares is not only reflected in stock exchange revenues but also clear in the Google data, particularly since the stock market crash on 19th February this year. Google Trends scores, indicators of relative search volume, have risen sharply with the German and global demand following similar patterns, at least in principle. For instance, in March 2020, search queries both for “Aktien Kaufen” and “Buy Shares” achieved a Google Trends score of one hundred, the highest possible relative search volume. Kryptoszene.de data showed that “investors are increasingly looking for shares in companies currently struggling with the effects of the corona pandemic.” According to the chart, securities for aviation and automotive companies are especially popular with investors’ search for Lufthansa shares being the second most frequent, followed by Daimler while in a ranking of demand, Amazon ranked ninth.. The data also indicated that demand for digital currencies is also growing as “manifested not only in higher trading volumes on exchanges, but also in an increased flow of visitors to cryptocurrency information platforms. Kryptoszene.de reported that total visits were up by as much as 87 percent since the outbreak of the corona crisis” Reflecting on the trends, a crypto-scene analyst, Raphael Lulay, said: “Although extraordinary market conditions also carry considerable risk, large fortunes are often accumulated during a crisis. “Against this backdrop a sharp rise in trading volumes is not particularly surprising”, said Lulav. Similarly, data from ‘Boerse.ard’ indicated show that Wirecard shares attracted investors’ interest, with the payment service provider ranking first among all searches for bonds over the past four weeks. MTNN, Nestle & Tier 1 banks’ stocks boost market value Stocks lose N426bn to profit taking Dangote Cement, 27 others raise equities value