Loyalists of the 2019 gubernatorial candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State, Senator Buruji Kashamu on Friday inaugurated Samson Bamgbose-led State Executive of the party. The new exco members are expected to officially assume duties on Monday when the tenure of outgoing State Working Committee (SWC) will end. Daily Trust reports that the development is contrary to the National Working Committee (NWC) directive not to go ahead with the state congress. The NWC led by Uche Secondus had reportedly directed the outgoing excos to stay action on the Congress as part of the ongoing reconciliatory move to unite Kashamu and the other faction led by former House of Representatives member, Hon Ladi Adebutu. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Bayo Dayo and Semiu Sodipo were suspended as the State Chairman and the Secretary of the outgoing SWC, having parted ways with Kashamu. At the party Secretariat on Friday, the 23 – man exco took oath to pilot affairs of the party for the next four years. Kashamu through his Omoilu Foundation donated cars to the newly inaugurated executive members. Speaking with newsmen shortly after the inauguration, the new PDP chairman said his administration would ensure PDP returns to power in the state. Bamgbose who was a former deputy chairman in the state, declared that the congress that produce the executive was backed by the constitution of the party. “Few years ago, this party was managing affairs of this state; we produced the government, PDP was running the government, but along the line something happened and it went off. “So, for now my primary aim is to bring the party back to that track, we want to be in the government, we want to produce the next government and we are producing the next government,” he said. The new chairman who vowed to unite the party, disclosed that he would communicate election and inauguration of the new SWC to the PDP national headquarters. Twist as battle for Ogun PDP soul thickens INEC writes PDP, accepts Kashamu’s candidates’ list 2023: NWC wades into Ogun PDP leadership crisis