An international advocacy organization, Global Citizen has partnered with the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) on a fund to support the country’s response against COVID-19. The fund is tagged the ‘Nigeria Solidarity Support Fund’. Speaking during an online meeting with pressmen yesterday, the organisations said a campaign that would engage Nigerians on the need to take action and help mobilize support for the effort against COVID-19 would come up later this month. The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo said the unprecedented nature of the COVID-19 global pandemic, makes it a challenge that the public sector could not tackle alone. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He said the federal government was delighted that the two organisations have embarked on a process to provide immediate support to Nigeria’s most vulnerable communities in the fight against COVID-19. “This stakeholder led-and-resourced mechanism will provide both flexible and rapid response resources to accelerate ongoing efforts to respond to COVID-19 in communities across Nigeria -as well as to strengthen health systems in the aftermath of the acute pandemic response,” he said. Michael Sheldrick, Chief Policy Officer, Global Citizen , said the organisation’s involvement in establishing the Nigeria Solidarity Support Fund alongside the NSIA directly aligns with its Nigeria policy direction for 2020 which seeks to mobilize funds and commitment to Nigeria’s most marginalized people. He said the investments would be aimed at implementation of Universal Healthcare Coverage, improving the health of the poorest women, children and adolescents in Nigeria. Managing Director, Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) Uche Orji said with the partnership , the organisation looks forward to innovate and transform the delivery of services to the Nigerian people in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the solidarity fund would enable the expansion of primary healthcare, improve access, build capacity and enhance the resilence of the country’s health delivery especially in rural and underserved communities. Minister of Finance , Mrs Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed said as many Nigerians were facing unprecedented challenges from COVID-19, the strain on government was extreme and the impact on the people all over the country continued to grow. She said a fund vehicle like the Nigeria Solidarity Support Fund would help government fund COVID-19 response efforts , and supply of the necessary protective and treatment equipment as well as long term strengthening of healthcare systems. Vice chairman of Global Citizen Nigeria, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede said the fund was established to provide immediate and long term support in the fight against COVID-19. He said the COVID-19 pandemic manifest primarily as a global health challenge but that its impact far exceeded the health sector.  COVID-19 pandemic, opportunity to reset our critical sectors – Osinbajo US vows to monitor $32.8m COVID-19 spending in Nigeria Coronavirus: Time for Nigeria to take science seriously