Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, has urged the Nigerian Army to support in enforcing the ban on interstate travels in and out of the FCT, to ensure that the successes recorded so far in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in the FCT are not reversed. The minister, who made this appeal in Abuja on Wednesday while receiving Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) from a delegation of the Nigerian Army Headquarters, said the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic was at a very critical stage and required the support of the army. A statement by the minister’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Anthony Ogunleye, quoted Bello as saying, “We have now reached a phase in the fight of the pandemic that is very critical, particularly for us in the FCT. But for us to be able to sustain the efforts, we would like to appeal to the Army high command to continue to support us, with respect to the lockdown enforcements within the territory itself, especially at the entry and exit points of the territory.” The minister said if the interstate restrictions of movement  was enforced properly,  it would eliminate a scenario where those who are infected within the territory do not  spread the virus in other states and those infected from other states do not infect FCT residents. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Malam Bello also appreciated the Nigerian Army for the PPEs, saying they would be useful to the frontline medical officers who have been working tirelessly over the last six weeks to fight the pandemic. He also acknowledged the cooperation and support that the FCT Administration has been receiving from the Nigerian Army in the areas of enforcement and security related activities. While presenting the PPEs on behalf of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai and the Nigerian Army, the leader of the delegation, Maj. General H.I Bature, Chief of Civil – Army Relations, Army Headquarters, Abuja, he assured that the Nigerian Army is always willing to support the Administration’s efforts at curbing the threat of COVID-19 in the country. He explained that the donations were part of the corporate social responsibility of the Nigerian Army as well as the continuation of the drive towards strengthening the civil/military relationship in the Federal Capital Territory. Items donated to the FCTA include personal protective suits, face masks, hand sanitizers, hand gloves and buckets.  Lawmakers pledge support to FCTA in fight against COVID-19 Minister bars workers resident in nearby states from entering Abuja Coy donates 100 beds to Idu isolation centre