The Kuje Area Council in the FCT has commenced enforcement of the suspension on all motorcycle operations in the area. This is aimed at curbing community spread of COVID-19. Mr Abdullahi Sabo, Chairman, Motorcycle Operators Restructuring Committee in Kuje, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday. READ: Kuje chairman suspends commercial motorcycle operation Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here NAN recalls that the council had on May 12, announced the suspension. Sabo said the development followed the daily rise in confirmed cases of the disease in the FCT, and influx of motorcycle riders to rural communities. “The outcome of our meeting yesterday (Tuesday), with Keke NAPEP (tricycle) officials was very fruitful, we made them to understand the decision of the council. “That Okada has just been suspended as a result of COVID-19 pandemic, and we feel we have to make use of keke to cushion the effect of absence of okada (motorcycle) riders. “We did tell them the rules and regulations of the council, which is a national rule, they must not carry more than three persons, including the driver,” he said. He, however, appealed to residents to take the lockdown order by the Federal Government seriously, noting that the fight to defeat the pandemic depended largely on complying with directives by government. According to Sabo, persons that have to go out of their homes with genuine reasons must wear face masks and observe the physical distancing rule everywhere they go, including markets and in vehicles. “This is a tough decision that the executive chairman of the council has to take for us to stay alive. “This suspension is temporary, it is just for a while, we all pray for quick exit of the COVID-19 pandemic so that life can return to normal. “We want to appeal to them to be patient with us and persevere, while we continue to pray to God to see us through this global pandemic,” he said. Awwal Yakubu, a tricycle operator, said every operator paid N4, 500 to register with the council and were each issued an ID card with a sticker. Yakubu said the operators would be charging an average of N100 per person, depending on the distance and location in the council. (NAN) Kuje chair suspends commercial motorcycle operation Bello restates Okada ban, Keke restriction Police, Kubwa residents strategise on Okada menace