The Lagos State government on Wednesday said it has completed and commissioned 37 roads projects, while repair and sectional rehabilitation works have been carried out on 354 others in various parts of the state in the last one year. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure, Engineer Aramide Adeyoye, disclosed this at Alausa, during a ministerial press briefing to commemorate Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s one year in office. Adeyoye said construction of the Pen Cinema road flyover and access roads in Agege, is currently at over 50 per cent completion stage, and that the flyover would be completed in September 2020. She expressed hope that the flyover would resolve the perennial traffic gridlock in Agege and its environs. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here She also expressed the determination of the present administration to complete outstanding works on the Murtala Muhammed International Airport road, which, according to her, had reached 92 per cent completion stage. The outstanding works, which included completion of the four pedestrian bridges along the road and other road furniture to enhance the road’s safety and aesthetics, would be completed soon, she noted. Governor Sanwo-Olu, on assumption of office last year, had promised to complete landmark projects like the Agege Pen Cinema road flyover, the Agric-Ishawo Road and the Lagos-Badagry expressway.   Sanwo-Olu also assured Lagos residents that he would commence work on the Fourth Mainland Bridge and the Lekki regional road before the end of this year. Adeyoye said that infrastructural development remained a critical development vehicle for realizing the Gov Sanwo-Olu T.H.E.M.E.S. Agenda and the greater Lagos vision of Africa’s model smart city, while she reiterated the administration’s commitment to the delivery of new road projects, massive repairs and rehabilitation of existing roads, and construction of new bridges in order to bring the dividends of democracy to the people of Lagos State.  Rains: Lagos residents groan, await Sanwo-Olu’s emergency solution Kaduna wears new look as projects unfold Sanwo-Olu mobilizes Julius Berger, 7 others to fix damaged Lagos roads