Emman Gold-Idehen is a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Special Adviser on Political Matters of the Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi Campaign Organisation. In this interview, he spoke on the chances of Ogiemwonyi ahead of other governorship aspirants of the party.  What edge do you think Ogiemwonyi has over other aspirants in the forthcoming governorship election in Edo? I think an ideal politician should have integrity, performance and compassion. People usually refer to politicians as untrustworthy but we believe that any decent politician must have credibility and integrity and Ogiemwonyi has this attribute. He keeps his promise and if people refer to him as a man of integrity, it’s a big plus for him. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Another aspect is performance in public office. Take a look at his antecedents and profile of all the four aspirants he is contesting with. Find out what they have done in the past and how they performed in those positions. If you look at Ogiemwonyi’s CV, you will be overwhelmed. His profile and manifesto tell you how prepared he is. The 34 years he spent in upstream production, he is the first man in the history of NNPC that has been the Chief Executive of three prominent companies within the conglomerate of NNPC. He was chief executive in NAPIMS, chief executive in NPDC and chief executive in Nigeria Gas Company (NGC). With his background, one would have expected that he will stay away from the murky waters of politics? He joined politics because of the passion and love he has for the people. He said to himself, he is not building more houses or making babies, but he was out to leave a legacy like late General Samuel Ogbemudia, late Professor Ambrose Alli and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. He is only responding to the call for him to serve the people who so much loved him at one of the receptions organised in his honour when he retired from the NNPC. Your principal is contesting the primary with other aspirants who are eminently qualified. What are his chances? His chances are bright. All you have to do, as I stated earlier, is to look at his profile. I am not condemning anybody, Ogiemwonyi stands out. When other aspirants will say when you make me governor, I will do this and that, Ogiemwonyi will say no I have done XYZ even without being a governor and will only add to what I have done when given the opportunity to serve as governor. It is not just being futuristic. So, if you look at that, the difference is clear. Many people that he couldn’t even remember had walked up to him to thank him on account of how he had assisted them in the past. We need someone who can put smiles on the faces of the people. The economy of the country is going through a difficult period. We need an experienced person who can combine both human and non-human resources to achieve the optimum. Edo 2020: Those angling for Obaseki’s job 2015: Bogus oracle at work again in Benin! APC must field sellable candidate to win Edo gov’ship – Ogiewonmyi