Kaduna State Government on Sunday said two people, who tested positive for COVID-19 in the state, have absconded after health officials notified them of their test result. State Commissioner of Health, Dr. Amina Mohammed-Baloni, said the two patients had been on isolation pending receipts of their test results and had been duly informed on Friday that they had tested positive. Dr. Baloni, in a statement she signed on Sunday, said: “Health officials subsequently notified them that a team will be coming to convey them to the isolation centre for treatment. “These persons subsequently switched off their phones and have remained incommunicado. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “These reckless action of theirs is endangering themselves, their families and the larger community. “Similar irresponsible conduct by some COVID-19 positive cases has been reported in another state. “It is a pattern of behaviour that must be stopped because it is dangerous to public safety,” she added. She said details of the two persons involved have been communicated to security agencies for tracking and surveillance. She urged members of the public who may have relevant information on the whereabouts of the patients to promptly contact the authorities. “COVID-19 is not a death sentence. Persons who receive treatment promptly have a higher chance of defeating the disease. “Twelve persons have so far been discharged in Kaduna State after receiving treatment and our health professionals are working hard for the recovery of other patients,” she said. The commissioner explained that positive but asymptomatic persons and untreated COVID-19 cases have a higher chance of infecting others and endangering their well-being, adding that; “knowingly infecting others and displaying an absence of consideration for the welfare of others is not a responsible response to this highly infectious disease.” Dr. Baloni further reiterated that all persons, who tested positive for COVID-19, must submit themselves for treatment at the isolation centre and warned that it was illegal and dangerous for COVID-19 positive patients to switch off their phones and make themselves inaccessible to health authorities after being notified of their test results. Kaduna records first COVID-19 fatality 16 new Almajiris from Kano test positive for COVID-19 in Kaduna Kaduna discharges three more Covid-19 patients