Despite efforts by the President Buhari-led government to promote transparency and accountability in the nation’s public finance system, the 2019 Open Budget Survey (OBS) Report still indicated that Nigeria scored very low in public participation in budgeting processes and implementation transparency. Making the result of the survey public, BudgIT, a civil society organization committed to raising the standard of transparency and accountability in government, in a statement by its Communications Associate, Iyanuoluwa Fatoba, expressed concerns over Nigeria’s 2019 unsatisfactory overall score in the 2019 (OBS) report, which was launched on the 30th of April, 2020. Specifically, the report, which was announced through a live webcast, showed that Nigeria scored 22/100 in public participation, 55/100 in budget oversight, and lastly, 21/100 in transparency, which also represents the overall Open Budget Index (OBI) score The organization therefore urged the Federal Government to take urgent steps to improve its budget process to global acceptable standards. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The OBS is a biennial global, independent and comparative assessment which evaluates public budget accountability of the national government based on three key metrics – transparency, public participation and institutional oversight. It would be recalled that in the 2017 OBS report, Nigeria had an overall Open Index Score of 17/100. According to BudgIT, while the newly released 2019 report shows a 4-point improvement, this does not infer that much progress has been made by the Nigerian government, especially when the previously raised underlying issues are still prevalent. The civil organization, for instance, attributed Nigeria’s low score in transparency “to insufficient comprehensiveness of key budget documents as well as late publishing and non-public availability of these budget documents.” Transparency and Nigeria’s health budget How transparent is Nigeria’s health budget and plan? How transparent is Nigeria’s health budget and plan?