Chief Executive Officers (CEO) of major manufacturing companies in the country as well as importers of raw materials have called on the Federal Government to adopt new proactive measures to help end the lingering crisis of port congestion in the country. The CEO’s position was contained in the latest Manufacturers CEOs Confidence Index Report for first quarter of this year According to the report, 94 percent of the CEOs interviewed agreed that congestion at the ports affected productivity negatively, while 4 percent disagreed Specifically, the industrialists urged the government to issue relevant guidelines that would make the Nigeria Customs Service, regulatory agencies at the ports, shipping companies and terminals operators more responsible for service lapses. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The report reflected that despite government’s interventions to end the gridlock, accessing the country’s port facilities and perennial congestion remained, thereby leading to delay in clearance of manufacturing inputs and machinery as well as high demurrage which increases the cost of production in the sector. The report stated: “Most worrisome are the issues of deliberate delay in cargo clearing time, raising of technical barriers, rejection of relevant documents by officers of the agency that approved import documents, multiple agencies with duplicated functions and other rent seeking activities of vested interests at the port that excessively fleece operators. “It is expedient that Government intentionally conduct a comprehensive review of all the contributory factors and consciously implement on-going reforms in a manner that all port related challenges that seemingly appears to have defied all solutions are be permanently resolved”, it added. Commenting on the problem, Managing Director, Mardi Maritime Services Limited, Bello Jada Hamidu said: “The situation at Tincan port is the worst. We spend between 7 and 14 days on the queue just to get into the port.” Daily Trust investigations showed that it now costs about N1.6 million to transport a  40-feet container from Lagos to Kano, up from the N900,000 being charged before by haulage operators. The same 40 feet container cost N1.2 million to Abuja from the N800,000 that was previously charged. It would be recalled that penultimate week, the Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN) had faulted the guidelines rolled recently by the Presidential Task Team on Apapa gridlock, saying the implementation will further worsen the congestion at the ports. NPA, Apapa roads and how to run gov’t business Yuletide: Port operators groan over gridlock in Lagos 48-hour clearance at ports: Mirage or reality?