In spite of the headwinds associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, banks and other financial institutions in the country posted a 24 percent Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rate in Q1 this year, up from the 22.3% growth recorded by them in Q4, 2019, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has reported. Based on the data, financial institutions retain their position as the fastest-growing sub-sector in the Nigerian Economy as growth in the sector remains miles ahead of every other sector in the economy and higher than the overall GDP growth rate of 1.87% for the quarter. The closest to financial institutions telecommunication and information sub-sector at 9.71%. An analysis of eight banks that published their first-quarter results posted about N836.2 billion in gross earnings compared to N755 billion representing a 10.8% growth. Most of the growth was from the merger between Diamond Bank and Access Bank. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Recall that the Chief Executive Officer of Zenith Bank Plc, Ebenezer Onyeagwu, while commenting on the effect of the coronavirus on the sector penultimate week said: “one of the most immediate impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic is the fact that the oil price crash will have negative implications for banks’ revenue targets. “In terms of banking, the drop in the price of crude is affecting directly the exposure that banks have created in the oil and gas sector. Revenues are challenged now, no doubt. And you have a situation where revenues are challenged, the obvious next step will be for you to restructure.” Similarly, an Augusto & Co report assessed the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the asset quality of the Nigerian banks. According to details of the report, banks are significantly exposed to several sectors, which include the oil and gas sector, manufacturing, real estate, public sector, construction, and general commerce. It mentioned that about 47% of the banking industry’s gross loans are in foreign currency. The report suggests that the coronavirus pandemic will weaken the asset quality of Nigerian banks in view of the impact on state governments’ finances, purchasing power of households and the performance of businesses. Commenting on the performance of the bank, Forensic Accountant, Matthew Ogagavworia who is the Managing Director at Qeeva Advisory Limited said: “What we are seeing is the impact of the decision of the Central Bank of Nigeria on the books of the banks. Instead of provisioning for bad loans, the forbearance now allows the banks to restructure and they will book the income even though they have not earned it. But so long as the law allows you, you will continue to book the income” Bongo Adi, Senior Lecturer at Lagos Business School (LBS) explained that the result was a momentum generated from last year which pushed into 2020. “From my personal computations, the economy was rearing for a very good growth before the emergence of COVID-19”, Adi said. ‘Revamping Nigeria’s manufacturing sector’ Nigeria’s economy slides by 0.16% in Q1 Economy slows by -0.68% as GDP expands by 1.87% in Q1— NBS