A dismissed policeman, Femi John, has told the Oyo State Commissioner of Police, Sina Olukolu, that he engages in illegal deals because it is the only way through which he feeds himself, his wife and children. The suspect confessed on Wednesday before journalists at the Command Headquarters  Eleyele, Ibadan, that the allegation of impersonation levelled against him was true and accurate. The 54-year-old Iseyin, Oyo State, indigene said he had been arrested many times for the same offence, adding that he was not afraid of going to jail. He said, “It has been a while I’ve been into it, so I am not afraid of going to jail. Jail is not meant for goats, it’s meant for human beings. After all, most Nigerian top politicians also go to jail. I didn’t rob, I am only using my entitlement to feed myself and my family. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “I don’t regret my action. I am a Force man, so I can’t I regret my action. I am not a robber and I have never been to the highway to rob. I only create ways to feed myself and my children. The Police Command also paraded 25-year-old Musiliu Waliu on the same day allegedly for conniving with hoodlums to rob his father.   Olukolu said that on May 4, 2020 at about 12am, three members of an armed robbery syndicate, whom he alleged were armed with guns, knives and some other dangerous weapons, invaded the residence of Adeniyi Musiliu, located at Isale Alfa, Saki, Oyo State. The police Commissioner said that the three robbers attacked their victim, dispossessed him of a sum of money, a cell phone and other valuable items. “Immediately the incident was reported at the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) base in Saki, a team of SARS men swung into action and arrested two of the suspects, Abass Kasim and Wale Olawuyi, in connection with the crime. “Their confessional statement led to the arrest of Moshood Fadilulahi, who supplied the locally made guns with the ammunition they used for the criminal activities. One other suspect, Musiliu Waliu, who is a son to the victim, was said to have given information about his father to his syndicate membership, which led to the armed robbery operation,” the police chief said. Admitting the crime, Waliu said, “I am an apprentice of the motor spare parts trade. When I wanted to do my freedom, I went to my dad to give me money for the ceremony but he told me he didn’t have any money to give me. That was why I decided to take some of my friends to rob him so that I can get money to celebrate my freedom. Now that I have been caught, I regret my action.” Olukolu, explaining the breakdown of the number of suspects his men arrested, said, “Thirty-six suspects were arrested, out of which nine were caught for armed robbery, one for murder/cultism, one for impersonation and another one for obtaining goods under false pretence and stealing. We target 2 million votes for Buhari in Oyo – Shittu After leaving office as FCT Police  Commissioner, I queued up for food at Law School Don’t be scared of prison, Buhari’s wife tells Patience