The Federal Government has given public institutions two months within which to secure data of Nigerians or get sanctioned. In a fresh guideline for the management of personal data by public institutions in Nigeria issued yesterday by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), the government warned public institutions not to breach the data of Nigerians. In a statement yesterday, NITDA said the guideline was issued as a supplementary regulation to the Nigeria Data Protection Regulation (NDPR) 2019. The guideline stipulates the requirements for the processing of personal data by public institutions in Nigeria, NITDA’s Head of Public Affairs, Hadiza Umar, said in the statement. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here She said, “It is issued to reinforce the implementation of the NDPR. All the principles and provisions of the NDPR remain valid and applicable to all Nigerians, including public institutions.” She explained that the guideline required all public institutions and any entity co-owned by government to process all personal data of Nigerians in line with best practices and in conformity with the highest standards. She further said, “All public institutions holding or processing personal data are required to securely digitise all personal databases within 60 days from the issuance of the guideline. “Similarly, all such public institutions are required to maintain the highest level of information security to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of all databases within their control.” She added that NITDA recognised the need for collaboration in some cases between the public and private sectors to tackle emergencies or other state-led interventions for the benefit of citizens, explaining that the guideline provided a strict framework for “these types of collaborations to ensure that the privacy of Nigerians is not unduly infringed. “The COVID-19 pandemic, for example, has brought up the need for more personal data use to limit the spread of the virus.” NITDA investigates NIS, banks, telcos over data breach NCC regulations not in conflict with NDPR — NITDA NITDA seals deal with EU on data protection compliance