Chairman of the seven-man screening committee of the Unity Forum of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State, Senator Yele Omogunwa, has opened up on how Chief Olusola Oke was picked as the consensus candidate of the forum for this year’s governorship election in the state. The selection of Oke has however created a crack in the forum conceived to oust Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu in the forthcoming governorship primaries of the APC. The forum is led by a former governor of the state, Alhaji Ali Olanusi. The selection of Oke has also led to the sacking of Olanusi by some elders in the group. Oke will slug it out with Akeredolu in the governorship primary of the APC expected to hold next month. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The sack of Olanusi was announced by High Chief S. A. Idris, chairman of the elders’ forum of the unity forum and Chief Bayo Olafusi, secretary, who declared the report that produced Oke as null and void. All effort to get the reaction of Olanusi who announced the selection of Oke yesterday proved abortive as he did not pick his calls nor replied a text message sent to him. Explaining how the committee picked Oke, Senator Omogunwa said it interfaced with the aspirants for two days and that they all agreed to support whoever was chosen. Omogunwa said the seven-man committee relocated to a church where the decision was reached to pick Chief Oke. He said the secretary of the committee, Prof. Soal Ehindero, wanted a technocrat while the only woman in the committee picked Mrs Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowose. “All the aspirants are competent but I agreed with the majority that said Chief Oke. The secretary left without signing. The only woman in our midst also did not sign. “The aspirants told us to do it the way it pleased us and they will support whoever emerged. We followed the mind of the public. A politician should wait for his time,” he said. He also denied the allegation that the panel was induced to pick Chief Oke. He said the committee shared only N1.2 million given to them by different aspirants in the process of carrying out their duties. Meanwhile, Deputy Senate Majority Leader, Ajayi Boroffice (APC, Ondo North), has faulted Oke’s selection, alleging that some members of the forum had struck a deal with Governor Akeredolu. Group petitions APC over anti-party activities in Ondo Ondo Guber poll: LP, ACN, PDP’s  desperate battle How APC’s Akeredolu  emerged Ondo gov-elect