The Gombe State Government has announced the suspension of ban on religious activities imposed to contain the spread COVID-19 in the State. The government had on Wednesday, April 22 announced a dusk to dawn curfew across the State to contain further spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya issued an executive order imposing the curfew across the 11 LGAs of the State from 6 pm to 7 am with effect from Thursday, April 23. The governor directed that all congregational activities for social, cultural and religious purposes regardless of the number of persons participating in such events should equally be suspended. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here However, the governor is now saying that religious gatherings can resume in places of worship with strict adherence to social distancing policy. He announced the suspension on Thursday shortly after a meeting with religious leaders at the Government House. He stated that the restriction imposed by the state government on religious gatherings and social activities had yielded results by helping to contain community spread of the virus. According to him, the religious leaders had given assurances that they would comply with all Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC)’s protocols on the COVID-19 while opening Mosques and Churches across the State. The governor directed that first aid groups of the respective religious organisations would be trained by the State’s special task force on the COVID-19 protocols. He, however, warned that failure of the religious organisations to comply with the protocols on social distancing, use of face masks, frequent hand washing with soap and water would lead to re-imposition of the ban. Also speaking, Chairman of the task force on COVID-19, Professor Idris Mohammed, appealed to residents of the State to ensure compliance with the directives and protocols. He stated that the task force would train selected members of religious organisations who would in turn step down the training to others to create more awareness on preventive measures. Our correspondent reports that both representatives of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Muslim groups pledged to abide by the rules set by government while worshiping in their respective places of worship. COVID-19: Gombe govt declares curfew Gombe Governor imposes dusk to dawn curfew States take measures on COVID-19 pandemic