Yuri Winston-Onyiah is a novelist, writer of jokes and standup comedian. In this interview, he talks about his drive, how it all started, and more. Excerpts: How did you evolve into a writer and comedian? All these happened at different times. For writing, I love to write and have always been a huge fan of Harry Porter. So, I grew up writing stories that were just like Harry Potter, about people with magic powers. I also come from a family of writers. Two of my siblings were good writers though they got jobs and left the art. I made up my mind not to do that even when I have a high paying day job. In 2008, I read ‘The Da Vinci Code’ and my imagination in terms of story writing had a huge paradigm shift and I took it seriously. In 2017, I became interested in jokes and standup comedy. In 2011, I discovered a British joke writing website and it inspired me to start writing jokes. My first standup comedy experience was in 2012, watching UK’s Katt Williams in ‘The Pimp Chronicles Part One.’ In my opinion, it is one of the greatest standup specials ever. After that, I began to do standup comedy in the U.K. until I returned to Nigeria. I would say, my life is a confluence of all three influences. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here What generally inspires you? I get my inspiration from regular media. For instance, while watching a movie with a good storyline, I get the thought that it will be a lot more interesting if done a certain way. That way I get fresh ideas that doesn’t have anything to do with the original story I saw. This also applies to my jokes. I’m currently experiencing writer’s block in terms of jokes. Whenever this happens, I observe so my mind can open up to new ideas. As a standup comedian, how do you prepare before a show? Do you laugh at your own joke? Standup is quite different. I don’t really laugh since the joke comes from me. When I have some thoughts and tell myself, this is a great idea for a joke, I put up an act and it makes people laugh. Once, something I wrote was posted on social media and it made me laugh. I totally forgot it came from me and that was why I found it funny. How long do you take to write a novel or a joke? The last book I published was a novella of twenty thousand words. I wrote that in two months and a couple of days. The novel I will put out next year is about eighty thousand words. It took me five months to write, but then that is only the first step. I give myself two weeks break without looking at the manuscript then go back with a fresh eye and edit it. This takes me about a month. But jokes are the quickest to write and come easy for me. So far, the three stories I have written are all thrillers and very unpredictable with an underlining theme of man’s search for himself. The last book I published is titled ‘The Souls That Said No’. It is about a man called Kunle Stevenson who uncovers the darkest secrets of the Nigerian government and takes his own life. It’s a conspiracy thriller with a touch of the supernatural. How profitable is it? I am doing everything now just for the love of writing. I put my content out on every platform that I can have access to for free. I have been invited for gigs where they pay me but the money is not of primary importance. I just want to see people laugh or appreciate my material. My books are on sale on Amazon and Okada Books. I put them there so I can get back my money’s worth.  Fans once booed me off stage because I was tipsy – Onome da Saint I can do anything to make people laugh  – Owen Gee Still on the Stand-up comedy in church