The Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Agriculture, Dr. Andrew Kwasari, has outlined how the $1.2 billion facility (about N479 billion) approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) last week will be utilised for agriculture mechanisation in order to achieve the purpose of the loan. The president’s aide in a chat with a business intelligence magazine, The Commerce Africa, hinted that largely most of the agricultural tractors and other machines would be imported from Brazil. According to him, the machines, which would be leased out to farmers “for fee operations by privately managed service centres in a competitive manner will set the basic foundation across 632 local government areas for proper agricultural service.” He explained that, “Services ranging from land preparation to harvest and storage will be provided timely and on demand to all farmers in a move to enhance productivity of smallholder farmers that don’t need to own tractors and implements.” Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Expatiating on processing plants aspect of the programme, Dr. Kwasari said, “Over 142 agro processing factories will be situated across all senatorial districts to create aggregation, intermediary and final processing of the increased farm outputs on the back of the 632 primary production supporting service centres in the respective LGAs. “This design logic is meant to prioritise tackling of the primary issues of post-harvest losses commonly suffered by smallholder farmers, and also to domesticate efficient supply chain operations where factories or aggregation hubs are closer to sources of raw material, as well as strengthen quality and standards control for the out grower scheme.” On job creation, training and technological skills transfer, Kwasari explained that, “This programme has five-year funded capacity development for all stakeholders”, adding that, “When the programme takes off fully, it is expected to create at least five million jobs and nutritional and economic impacts on 35 million Nigerians. He explained that the programme was “tailor-made to cater for the needs of private operators of the service centres, farmers, extension workers, regulatory and research institutions, among others. Kwasari projected that, “36 months from this approval, Nigeria will be food secured for the various plants and livestock-related commodities identified to be supported by the programme across the states.” It would be recalled that FEC last week approved the €995m (or $1.2bn, about N479bn) in kind facility for the agricultural mechanisation project. The agricultural machinery, comprising tractors and other agricultural machines, when acquired, would be leased out to farmers.