An estimated 23,000 Nigerians are seeking safety and security in Niger following ongoing violence in parts of Northwestern Nigeria. The spokesperson of the  United Nations’ High Commissioner for Refugees, Babar Baloch, stated this at a press briefing at the Palais des Nations in Geneva, a statement yesterday by the UN said. He said it took the total number of refugees fleeing the north to take sanctuary in neighbouring Niger to more than 60,000 since the first influx in April last year. “Since April 2019, people have fled relentless attacks by armed groups in the Sokoto, Zamfara and Katsina States of Nigeria. Most found refuge in Niger’s Maradi region” the statement said. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The UN Refugee Agency raised concerns about deteriorating security inside Nigeria and the risk of armed incursions spilling over into Niger. It said the  latest influx of refugees, mainly desperate women and children, followed attacks in Nigeria’s Katsina, Sokoto and Zamfara States during the month of April. Several villages in several local government areas were attacked by gunmen. The deadliest attack claimed 47 lives in Kankara, Danmusa and Dusi-ma Local Government Areas in Katsina State and prompted airstrikes by the Nigerian Armed Forces. “Those fleeing speak of extreme violence unleashed against civilians, murders, kidnappings for ransom and pillaging and looting of villages. “Refugees from Nigeria are being allowed to seek protection in Niger despite border closures due to COVID-19. New arrivals are in urgent need of water, food and access to health services, as well as shelter and clothing. Many were barely able to carry anything in the rush to save lives”it said. “Many have also been caught up in the clashes reported being blamed on farmers and herders of different ethnic groups as well as vigilantism. Some 95 per cent of the refugees have come from Nigeria’s Sokoto state, rest from Kano, Zamfara and Katsina States.” 42,000 flee violence in northern Nigeria near Niger border The misery of Nigerian refugees and IDPs Nigerian governors sign MoU on security with Niger Republic counterpart