Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, has expressed concerns that residents are flagrantly breaching the COVID-19 order of social distancing at public places and wearing of face masks. Bello said this while addressing the media shortly after the weekly meeting with members of the State task force on COVID-19. “It is regrettable that closure of interstate borders has not been very effective while commercial motorcyclists and other commercial drivers are seen flouting government orders without much ado”. The Governor consequently announced total ban on the operation of commercial motorcycle (Okada)for the next two weeks while the status quo remains on all other measures put in place in the last two weeks. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here While reiterating government’s commitment to the safety of its health personnel and the State COVID-19 task force members, Bello assured that government will deal decisively with any attack on its front line workers. The Governor urged the general public to be more vigilant, adhere strictly to personal hygiene, observe social distancing at public places, wear face masks and seek medical attention in the event of symptoms such as fever, cough and catarrh. “Let me also call on individuals with travel history from States with cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) to ensure they self-isolate and promptly report to the nearest health facility.” The Governor also disclosed that plans were at an advanced stage by the state government to establish a molecular laboratory and a testing center at the General Hospital, Minna, to increase testing capacity and reduce turnaround time for the release of COVID-19 results. He said government had trained 457 health workers and recruited 20 adhoc staff that will man the laboratory. He explained that the State government had also strengthened its surveillance system to detect any case of coronavirus disease as well as investigate and monitor any outbreak. The governor added that drugs, medical supplies and personal protection equipment have been prepositioned at the Isolation centers. Earlier, the Vice Chairman of the state task force on COVID-19 and Commissioner for Health, Dr. Muhammad Makunsidi, disclosed that the State received a total of 252 signals of suspected COVID-19 cases, investigated 235 and collected over 202 samples for testing. According to the State task force Vice Chairman, 10 of the samples were returned positive out of which two persons have recovered and discharged. He said 125 persons are confirmed negative and 67 results were still being awaited. A total of 95 people are in quarantine facilities across the State while 156 people, who have completed their two weeks mandatory quarantine, have been allowed to go home, according to the State commissioner. Makunsidi also disclosed that the state received a total of 41 returnee Almajirai, adding that 22 have been reunited with their families. Niger earmarks N400m for palliatives COVID-19: Niger’s uncommon competence amid security challenges COVID-19: Gov. Tambuwal suspends activities in all border markets