The Airports Council International (ACI) World and the International Air Transport Association (IATA) in a joint statement yesterday called on governments to quickly grant financial relief to assist airport operators and airlines during “the unprecedented COVID-19 crisis.” They asked the governments to support the essential connectivity the industry will provide for economic recovery. According to the world aviation bodies, the economic impact of global travel restrictions on all involved in the global air transport industry has been severe. With passenger demand plummeting to unprecedented levels, revenues are falling beyond the ability of even the most extreme cost-cutting measures to mitigate. Airports and airlines continue to face a financial liquidity crisis. The bodies noted that the current state of the global air transport industry risks the loss of millions of jobs. The aviation industry supports 65.5 million jobs around the world, including 10.5 million people employed at airports and airlines, and support $2.7 trillion in world economic activity. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to unfold, airports and airlines around the world are engaged in a battle to sustain essential operations and to preserve jobs. ACI and IATA therefore called for urgent balanced support to the industry in form of tax relief, including alleviation of payroll taxes, corporate taxes, concession fees or other government incomes from the industry loans, loan guarantees or direct support to maintain financial liquidity across the aviation ecosystem. ACI World Director General Angela Gittens, said: “The financial impact of the current crisis is unlike anything we have ever seen and requires urgent action by governments to assist the aviation industry to protect jobs, ensure essential operations, and plan for recovery.” In his remarks, IATA’s Director General, Alexandre de Juniac said the situation could not be more dire, saying governments would require the support of aviation to lead economic recovery post COVID-19.  COVID-19: Nigeria may lose N62bn to flight disruptions - IATA ‘Airlines’ passenger revenues to drop by $314bn’ COVID-19: IATA forecasts N38bn revenue shortfall for Nigerian airlines