The Armed Forces of Nigeria on Wednesday said it has killed 343 Boko Haram Terrorists (BHT) and ISWAP fighters between March 18th to May 5th this year. Nigeria is battling non states actors in the Northeast, Northwest and North central states of the country. Speaking in Abuja during a briefing on the review of the Military’s operations, Coordinator of Defence Military Operations, Major General John Enenche, said a host of others were severally injured, including their key leaders. He said, within the period under review, villages that were under attack were rescued by the troops and normalcy returned to the affected areas. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He said a number of Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance missions were conducted, which revealed criminal hideouts as well as their activities. Enenche added that a number of air interdictions were conducted, which led to the destruction of several BHT logistics facilities and compounds housing some of their leaders, including Abu Usamah and a number of their fighters who were eliminated. According to him, most of the Boko Haram’s logistics installations and networks have been destroyed, while 16 of their informants and logistics suppliers were arrested. He stated that these operations have considerably degraded the insurgents and reduced economic sabotage in “our Exclusive Economic Zone.” Enenche disclosed that within the period under review, the troops of Operation Hadarin Daji, through combined efforts of both land and air components, were able to clear the hideout of bandits and rescue a total of 17 kidnapped victims. He said 146 bandits were neutralized in Katsina and Zamfara States, adding that the troops recovered several arms and ammunition among other equipment. He said the troops also rescued 922 Rustled Cattle and 446 sheep, adding that four soldiers however paid the supreme prize. Also, within the period under review, Enenche said troops of Operation Whirl Punch clamped down on armed militia and other bandits in Benue and Taraba States and rescued seven kidnapped victims. He said they recovered large caches of ammunition and other items. Hee also said seven bandits were killed by troops from contacts made at Toto Nasarawa State and Anku Mbagen of Benue State. He said non of the troop operatives were wounded or killed during the operations. Enenche noted that in the Southern Regions, troops operating within the Maritime environment, covering Operations AWATSE and DELTA SAFE, were able to discover a total of 61 illegal refining sites during Anti-Crude Oil/Anti-Illegal Bunkering Operations in the Niger delta Region. He said a total of 4,465 barrels and 1,781,000 million litres of crude oil were recovered. He said part of the recovery’s made were 1,756,900 litres of AGO; 116,000 litres of DPK and 11,750 litres of PMS. Nigerian troops eliminate 134 terrorists, apprehend 16 Informants in Borno NAF kills key ISWAP leaders in Borno Military kills over 50 terrorists, captures others in one week — DHQ