Bandits have killed a security guard and kidnapped three others including the Sarki of Doka, a banker and his daughter in an attack at Danhono II and Dokan Mai-Jama’a communities within the Millennium city, Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna state. The attack, which occurred Monday night at about 9 pm is the fourth in the area in a span of one month. Daily Trust gathered that the security guard identified as Emmanuel was said to have been killed by the bandits when they broke through the wall of the bankers’ house. Our correspondent further gathered that the Garrison Commander, 1 Division Nigerian Army Headquarters and the State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs have already visited the communities. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here A source at Doka who gave her name as Peace said, “It was a terrifying experience. It was around 9 pm when many residents had not gone to bed when we heard sporadic shooting. “At first, we thought it was the local security team showcasing their firepower, but we suddenly realised that it was bandits that have invaded our community. “Unfortunately, a security guard was killed while three others were kidnapped including the Sarki. We learned that they had earlier attacked Danhono II and kidnapped a banker and his daughter.” However, a resident of Danhono who pleaded anonymity said, “The bandits had after kidnapping a banker and his daughter tried to kidnap another banker in the area but was repelled by soldiers. “We learned that they moved to two other communities and kidnapped two persons even after exchanging fire with soldiers.” Commending the police for their pro-activeness, he said “When the incident took place, we called the police call center and they responded promptly, even though they were not able to rescue the victims, they have presently stationed two vehicles with policemen in the area.” BREAKING: Bandits attack soldier’s camp, kill 12 in Kaduna Bandits kill 12 soldiers in Kaduna village Banditry: Birnin Gwari residents flee