The Lagos State Police Command says it has arrested 2,310 persons for allegedly violating the government lockdown order in the last one month. It also said that about 2,092 vehicles, 1,535 motorcycles and 369 tricycles were impounded during the period under review. This is even as the Command vowed to enforce the 8pm to 6am curfew the federal government imposed on the Lagos metropolis. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, on Sunday while reviewing the Command’s operations during the lockdown period, said following the measures put in place by the Lagos State government and Presidential directives on the cessation of movements in Lagos State (both intra and inter-state movements) to curb the spread of coronavirus, the Command massively deployed its resources across the state to enforce the lockdown order. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here To effectively enforce the order, Elkana said, the Command identified 14 boundaries which Lagos has with neighbouring states, adding that these boundaries were adequately manned by operatives of the Command deployed at the instance of the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu. He said detectives from the tactical units were deployed to reinforce the conventional patrol teams. “Some of the violators were arrested in clubs, some at organised parties, while some were engaged in group exercises, etc. Two thousand, one hundred and eighty-five suspects were charged to court, while 125 suspects, who are mostly minors, were warned and released. “The suspects were awarded various degrees of punishment by the court, ranging from two hours to six months community service and fines between N5,000 and N100,000. Some were asked to write undertakings to be of good conduct/apology letters. “Out of the 2,092 vehicles impounded within the same period for violating the lockdown order, 800 are private vehicles, while 1,292 are commercial vehicles. “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, deeply appreciates the good people of Lagos State for their support and commends the officers and men of the Command for their gallantry, resilience and professionalism in combating the COVID-19 pandemic. “The battle against coronavirus is not over yet. The Command enjoins residents to adhere strictly with the guidelines issued by the Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19 and Lagos State Government to stop the spread of the virus. “The use of facemask is compulsory and social distancing principles must be maintained. Businesses and markets must stick to the opening and closing times allocated in the guidelines. “Commercial vehicle operators must not carry passengers more than the number stipulated in the guidelines. “The order restricting non-essential inter-state movement is still in force. “And the ban on social and religious gatherings has not been lifted. “Schools remain closed until otherwise directed by the government. “The 8pm to 6am curfew imposed on residents by the government will be strictly enforced. “The enforcement teams are fully out to apprehend violators and arraign them in court. “We must all take responsibility for our safety and the safety of our communities. “Together we can stop the spread of COVID-19,” the PPRO said.  Flouting COVID-19 order: Nollywood actress, husband plead guilty, get N200,000 fine Lockdown: Ban on social, religious gatherings remain — Buhari COVID-19: Buhari allows 6am-8pm movements in states