Jumia, an e-commerce platform, in partnership with Mastercard, is incentivising consumers to use cashless payment platforms for essential products in Africa in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Through the initiative, consumers who purchase essential products using their Mastercard on the Jumia platform will receive up to a 10 per cent discount. According to Sami Louali, the Executive Vice President, Financial Services at Jumia, the discount offers from Mastercard and Jumia will be available in five countries: Nigeria, Egypt, Kenya, Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana, adding that the incentive will help drive more consumers to adopt JumiaPay, which he described as a safe and digital payment method. Louali also pointed out that the initiative sought to encourage consumers to safely transact using digital payment channels and avoid human-to-human contact in line with recommendations from global and regional health authorities and governments. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He said, “We are proud to partner with Mastercard as part of our social commitment and business responsiveness to the global pandemic. We are also happy to support our customers by offering them a strong incentive to use cashless payments and providing access to essential products with affordable prices during this challenging time. This partnership supports the various government cashless payment policies in each of these countries. This is an additional step to limit cash exchange at this time.” The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Jumia Nigeria, Massimiliano Spalazzi, said, “We are uniquely positioned to step up and be part of Africa’s response strategy in this challenging time. We have implemented a ‘contactless’ delivery option which eliminates any possibility of physical contact. Convenience, social distancing and cashless measures are woven into one solution to combat the current situation.” MasterCard, Jumia partner to accelerate e-commerce growth in Africa COVID-19: Jumia introduces 'Contactless' delivery Mastercard, Jumia partner to accelerate e-commerce growth in Africa