The old boys of the Government Secondary School (GSS) Kuje (2001 set) have donated food items to orphans and vulnerable women in the area council to help cushion the effects of the COVID-19 lockdown. Mr. Onyeka Ekene, the spokesperson of the association, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday that the gesture was aimed at reducing the suffering of the less privileged in the area. According to him, the association is saddled with the responsibility and passion to serve humanity irrespective of religious background, gender, ethnicity and culture. Mr. Ekne said, “In the midst of this COVID-19 outbreak, as people that grew up in this environment, that had their secondary education in this environment, we felt like giving back to the community, no matter how little. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “I was made to understand that both the current and former chairmen of this area council finished from GSS Kuje. “So, we encourage every set of GSS Kuje, to do anything, no matter how little it is, to support people in the community that impacted us as students.” Ekene added that the association was available to always give back to the society, especially during emergencies as well as during health and humanitarian challenges in the country. NAN reports that items distributed to the vulnerable women and the orphanage included rice,  salt, oil and spaghetti. The District Head of Paseli, Allhaji Usman Yusuf, who received the palliatives on behalf of the vulnerable women, commended the association for helping to fight the pandemic and hunger. Alhaji Usman called on other well-meaning Nigerians to emulate the association to help in cushioning the effects of the lockdown. He said, “I thank the old students association for taking care of the old. “In fact, thanks to the persons that initiated this gesture in Paseli.  (NAN)  FCT Golf association to commission golf course at GSS Gwagwalada FCT-UBEB organises workshop to improve teaching Poor toilets in FCT schools kick up a stink