The Lagos Water Corporation (LWC) has re-affirmed its commitment towards sustaining potable water supply to Lagos residents despite the raging COVID-19 pandemic. The Corporation said it has consequently, through its Water Quality Assurance Department, embarked on the disinfection of its headquarters, waterworks, regional business offices and other water formations. This, according to the Corporation’s Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Engineer Muminu Adekunle Badmus, was part of the preventive strategy/measures put in place to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the state. “The action is geared towards the partial resumption to work of staff from levels 15 and above as directed by the Lagos State Incident Commander on COVID-19, Mr Babajide Sanwoolu, who is the Governor of Lagos State,” Badmus said in a statement on Saturday. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here The disinfection exercise started from the Water-House, Ijora, Lagos, with a view to making the environment “unendangered and invulnerable for its staff and customers.” The LWC boss assured Lagos residents of continuous sustainability of water supply, saying its importance cannot be over emphasised at this COVID-19 pandemic era. He stated that the Corporation was “undauntedly” determined to support the state government’s efforts at curbing the virus spread in the state. Badmus noted that regular washing of hands with soap and clean running water as a preventive measure against the spread of COVID-19 was of high importance to the residents and government. He, however, advised the residents to conserve and use water wisely. He also urged customers to support government’s efforts by paying their water bills as and when due and that they should take advantage of the new payment channels recently rolled out by the Corporation for easy payment of water bills from the comfort of their homes.  Fire outbreak disrupts water supply in Lagos Weeks after disruption, Lagos restores water supply to residents Lagos blames water supply disruption on power outage