President Muhammadu Buhari has terminated the appointment of Charles Uwakwe as registrar of National Examinations Council and four other management staff for various offences. Their removal comes after a panel investigating allegations of misconduct against them while they were on suspension recommended they be removed. A May 11 letter signed by the permanent secretary Sonny Echono said Uwakwe was accused of violating public procurement act. A statement from the council’s head of information and public relations, Azeez Sani, said the “President in exercise of his powers, has approved your removal as Registrar/Chief Executive Officer of National Examinations Council with effect from the date of your suspension from duty”. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He was directed to hand over all government properties in his custody to the Acting Registrar of the Council. The affected officers are: Mr. Bamidele Olure, Acting Director (Finance and Accounts), Dr. Shina Adetona, Head of Procurement Division, Mr. Tayo Odukoya, Deputy Director and Barr. Babatunde Aina, Head of Legal/Board matters. Olure, Acting Director (Finance and Accounts), was dismissed financial impropriety and not qualified to Head the Finance and Accounts Department. Adetona was dismissed for acts tantamount to fraudulent practices, sabotage and suppression of official records. Odukoya was dismissed for acts of serious misconduct. The letter directed the management of NECO to Commence the process of recovering ill-gotten benefits/gains from Odukoya who acted as Director of a company (M/S I-web Solutions) while in service of Government. Aina was dismissed from service for falsification of records and dishonesty in the sale of NECO Guest House, which is being investigated by the EFCC. FG suspends NECO registrar,2 others over N25b financial mismanagement FG suspends NECO registrar Uwakwe, 2 others The beleaguered education sector