A former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has congratulated the new Chief of Staff to the President, Prof Ibrahim Agboola Gambari. He urged him not to toe the usual path of Villa cabal. Frank described the appointment as a well-deserved one based on the antecedents of the new Chief of Staff. Reacting to the appointment through a statement in Abuja on Wednesday, the political activist said, as a scholar and diplomat, he is convinced that Prof Gambari will bring his rich experiences garnered over the years to improve the country’s diplomatic relations. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here While urging Nigerians to support the new Chief of Staff, Frank urged Prof Gambari not to betray the trust reposed on him by Nigerians. Frank said: Nigerians expects you to chart a new direction away from lopsided appointment, corruption and all manners of anti-people’s policies.” He said Prof. Gambari should be bold to tell the President the real feelings of Nigerians. He added that whatever the new Chief of Staff does now will forever affect his name either positively or negative. “I salute your appointment as the chief of staff to the president. It highly deserves. “I have no doubt that you will build bridges. “I have known you to be a detribalized Nigerian with so much wealth of experience, having held several leadership positions at the national and international levels, who has built extensive contacts with governments as well as private institutions. “As a scholar and diplomat, I am convinced you will bring the experiences garnered over the years to improve our diplomatic relations. “Your appointment is coming at a very significant period of our country. “Therefore, I urge you on behalf of Nigerians to bring your wealth of experience and fatherly disposition to unite the country as you carry on your duties as the chief of staff to the president. “It is a fact that you are not the President but I believe you can influence people oriented policies in order to ameliorate the hardship in the country,” Frank stated. Similarly, the Director General, National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), Prof. Abubakar O. Sulaiman, has congratulated Ambassador Gambari on his appointment as the new Chief of Staff (COS) to President Muhammadu Buhari. He said Gambari’s appointment would benefit the nation. Professor Sulaiman, in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja, appreciated the President for recognizing Ambassador Gambari’s immense experience and leadership demonstrated in his previous positions, including the Ministry of External Affairs, African Union and the United Nations among others. “I have no doubt that his vast experience, pedigree, patriotism, demonstrated capacity at both national and global levels will make him both suitable and appropriate for the position of CoS to Mr. President,” Sulaiman said. He added that he was convinced that President Buhari made the right and proper choice in appointing Ambassador Gambari, “a seasoned administrator and bridge builder” as his new COS. While wishing Gambari success in his new assignment, Professor Sulaiman further expressed confidence that the Kwara-born Prince would bring his vast administrative capacity to bare to the benefit and upliftment of the country at this trying times. Atiku, Saraki congratulate Buhari's Chief of Staff Emir of Ilorin thanks Buhari for appointing Gambari as Chief of staff Gambari tipped as Buhari’s new Chief of Staff