The committee, which was set up by the Jigawa State government to investigate reported mysterious deaths in Hadejia Local Government Area of the state, has filed its report. In the report, while the committee acknowledged that 92 corpses were buried within eight days in two cemeteries in the LGA, it said the deaths were not connected to COVID-19. This was contained in a statement issued in Dutse by Malam Auwalu Danladi Sankara, the Special Adviser to the Governor on New Media. The Committee, which was headed by Dr. Mahmud Abdulwahab, was quoted in the statement to have said that the General Hospital in Hadejia recorded 46 deaths while the community records 44 deaths. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here It, however, added that the grave count in the two cemeteries in the local council indicated that 92 corpses were buried within eight days. The committee said the verbal autopsy revealed that the majority of the deceased were males, constituting 73%, while 23% were females. The report explained that 59% of the deaths took place at home while 41% took place at the general hospital. It added that 74% of the deceased were above 60 years, 16% were between 40 to 60 years. All of the deceased persons who were investigated had pre-existing diseases like stroke, diabetes, dementia, liver diseases or musculoskeletal diseases, the report stated. Also, the report revealed that none of the deceased had travel history outside Hadejia local government in a month prior to the death and none had a history of contact with either a confirmed or suspected case of COVID-19. “Only one person out of those investigated persons had fever, cough, and difficulty in breathing and diarrhea in the week leading to his death and also died at home and his family members are already in isolation,” the report said. Therefore, the state government called on the people of the local government to stay calm and continue to practice social distance and personal hygiene. Dozens die in Jigawa in 4 days 150 people die in Kano in 3 days Over 100 people die in Yobe in 1 week