The Northern Governors’ Forum (NGF) has congratulated Prof. Ibrahim Gambari on his appointment as the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari. The chairman of the forum and Governor of Plateau, Mr Simon Lalong, in a congratulatory message issued by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Dr Makut Macham, on Wednesday in Jos, said the appointment was well-deserved. He described Gambari as an accomplished diplomat and administrator whose vast experience and qualifications, both at home and abroad, would help him discharge his duties diligently. “The professor comes into the job with huge experience and knowledge on governance and service, which we believe will enable him to perform well. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “As northern governors, we assure him of our support and prayers, as he takes on this very important role,” he said. Governors of Yobe, Mai Mala Buni; Kwara, Abdulrazak Abdulrahman; Niger, Abubakar Sani Bello; and others also sent separate statements wishing the new chief of staff well in his new calling.  Tinubu, ACF too The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Wednesday described the appointment of Prof. Gambari as “prudent and thoughtful”, saying the chief of staff would help President Buhari in advancing “his policy and governance priorities just as he did in the past when he served as Minister of External Affairs in the 1980s.” “The appointment of Prof. Ibrahim Agboola Gambari as the new Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari is a laudable one,” Tinubu said in a statement. According to him, his knowledge of Gambari “is that he is an erudite man who knows and loves this country and who strongly believes in the Nigerian project and President Buhari’s Change Agenda. He is no stranger to our party, APC, and its progressive national vision,” he said. Also, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has congratulated Prof. Gambari on his new appointment. The National Publicity Secretary of the forum, Mr Emmanuel Yawe, remarked in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria on Wednesday in Kaduna. The forum described Prof. Gambari as “a distinguished Nigerian, who was coming into office as chief of staff with an illustrious career spanning the academia, government and international diplomacy.” Emir of Ilorin thanks Buhari for appointing Gambari as Chief of staff Timi Frank, Prof. Sulaiman hail Gambari's appointment as COS State of the nation: Voices of reason drowning rapidly, Abdulsalami warns