More facts have emerged on why the State Working Committee (SWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kaduna State suspended a former senator, Suleiman Hunkuyi, and six members of his camp over what the party described as “anti-party activities.” The suspension, which was announced in a statement issued on Saturday, May 16, 2020, after a preliminary hearing on party discipline held in the state, it said, was in accordance with Section 57(3) 2017, of the PDP Constitution as amended. The statement, signed by the state party Publicity Secretary, Abraham Alberah Catoh, named other suspended members of the party to include: Hashim Garba, Dr Mato Dogara, Ibrahim Lazuru, Dr John Danfulani, Lawal Imam Adamu and Ubale Salmanduna. READ: 2023: PDP mulls remodelling of manifesto Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Though the statement did not specifically mention the alleged antiparty activities which Hunkuyi and his camp were guilty of, it stressed that the members remained suspended and are expected to appear before a disciplinary panel. Daily Trust gathered from party insiders that the suspension was connected to the court case filed by Hunkuyi’s camp in March, shortly after the ward congress in which they obtained an interim injunction restraining the PDP from implementing the outcome of the March 14 ward congress election. READ: Bayelsa West: Crack in APC over Dickson’s ambition Attempt to contact Sen. Hunkuyi was unsuccessful as his phone was switched off but Dr Danfulani in a reply to Daily Trust text message, said the committee lacked the power to suspend them without hearing from them. Danfulani said: “The state working committee said we were suspended because of antiparty activities. “The phrase if amorphous and lacks specificity. “That made their decision gloomy. “However, one thing is clear; they don’t have the power to suspend us without hearing from us first. “Finally, this will not stand I will challenge the illegal decision in court.” 