In a bid to cushion the effects of Covid-19 on its host communities, the management of Arewa Metal Container, Armeco, has donated food stuff worth N6 million to communities in Kaduna South LGA. The relief materials which included 300 bags of rice, 30 bags of beans, packets of spaghetti and other food materials were given to religious leaders from Kakuri and Barnawa communities to distribute to the poor and vulnerable. The General Manager, finance and Admin, Armeco, Raymond Anyawu said the gesture was done to strengthen the existing relations that exist between the company and the communities, stressing, the palliatives will also reduce pressure on the state government. The general manager noted that not only has the virus hit hard on the finances of individuals but also resulted in the rise of domestic abuse, urging couples to be patient with one another as the virus will come to an end. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here “Some of us will not be able to cope with the challenges of this difficult times. Therefore, as a corporate entity, we find it necessary to do our own token by assisting the government in donating foodstuffs to our host communities.” He appealed to residents to stay indoors as ordered by the state government as the strategy is the best approach to keep them safe from the virus, adding “the order is not in the best of anyone but helps keep us alive.” “Kakuri as the industrial area in Kaduna, have lots of less privileged who depend on their daily income, it is on this note Armeco engaged religious leaders in this community to help distribute and ensure the relief materials reached them because they are closer.,” he said. Frederick Omale, a representative from St Andrews Church, thanked the company for setting a standard for other organisations in the communities, noting that the palliatives will serve as a historic gesture and will be duly appreciated by the communities.  Kaduna Electric suspends disconnections over COVID-19 Aisha Buhari donates relief materials to victims of Kajuru crisis Kajuru attack victims receive more relief materials