The Managing Director of the Chinese construction giants, CCECC, Micheal Jiang, has said that the company participated in the delivery of a 300-bed COVID-19 treatment facility at the ThisDay Dome in Abuja, because of its commitment to development of the country and wellbeing of Nigerians. Her said on Thursday in Abuja that the commissioning of the This Day Dome facility was an important step towards combating COVID-19 as the facility is designed to supplement the medical resources in the country. According to him, the CCECC delivered on its assigned mandate in record time within two months of receiving the request. He said, “Upon receiving the request from the government of Nigeria on March 29, the CCECC immediately mobilized a design team comprising of experienced designers, engineers and workers, and commenced the site work without any conditions.” Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He said irrespective of the enormous challenges occasioned by the lockdown in Abuja the CCECC was still able to put a team together who procured most of the equipment used for the construction locally. “We are always willing to make efforts to support this great nation to fight the coronavirus pandemic when called upon,” Jiang said. Scope of work On the scope of work done by the CCECC he said it included ground reconstruction, partitioning, water supply system among others. The CCECC also provided two ventilators, one oxygenator, as well as 10,000 face masks. The ThisDay Dome COVID-19 treatment and management facility is the initiative of the Chairman of Thisday and Arise TV, Nduka Obiagbena, together with the Executive Director of Sahara Energy, Tope Shonubi, Ca-Covid, led by the CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele, the NNPC, and CBN among others. The facility has the capacity to test, trace, and treat COVID-19 cases in Abuja, including a mobile laboratory with reagents for 200 to 1,000 daily molecular testing. It also has an intensive care unit (ICU) for the treatment of the most severe novel coronavirus cases in the nation capital. COVID-19: Chinese medics to be quarantined on arrival today Much ado about Chinese doctors Reasons for arrival of Chinese medics show public deception - NMA