Senator Orji Uzor Kalu has vowed to dedicate the rest of his life pursuing justice for all Nigerians wherever they may be. The former Abia State governor stated this while reacting to Friday’s Supreme Court ruling quashing the judgement that convicted and sentenced him to 12 years imprisonment. Kalu, in statement he personally signed, said by the judgement, the Apex court has affirmed his right to fair hearing and equal protection of the law. He said the five months he spent in the Correctional facility has provided him an opportunity to learn invaluable lessons about Nigeria’s justice system and the true meaning of love. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here Kalu said, “the events of the past five months gave me an added perspective on matters of justice and injustice in Nigeria. I have come to know that the course of justice will not be complete if it stopped at my case. It must continue until it touches the lives of millions of Nigerians who face injustice anywhere in this world. “I shall be dedicating my time henceforth to ensuring there will be justice for all Nigerians whether they are in Sokoto or Akwa Ibom or in Lagos or Maiduguri or in Jos or Enugu, or wherever they may be. “Justice for one man or for a few people will no longer be enough in this country. A system whereby over 70% of all prison inmates population is made up of people awaiting trial cannot be allowed to continue. Situations where innocent people are falsely charged with murder just to get them out of the way does not dignify our country and cannot continue. Justice must now mean justice for all. That is my pledge to Nigerians.” Kalu said his experience in the correctional centre tested and reaffirmed his belief and confidence in Nigeria. The former governor of Abia State, was sentenced to 12-year imprisonment in December, 2019. Kalu, who is the Senate Chief Whip of the 9th Assembly, was found guilty by a Federal High Court in Lagos on fraud charges and remanded at the Ikoyi Correctional Centre. His conviction and sentencing to 12 years in jail came 12 years after the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) filed N7.65 billion fraud charge against him. The EFCC had filed the charge in 2007. He joined two former governors, Joshua Dariye (Plateau) and Jolly Nyame (Taraba), as an inmate in a correctional centre. Abia North re-run: Ohuabunwa, Kalu renew rivalry Fraud: Kalu joins Dariye, Nyame in prison Army officers who defeated the Army