Troops deployed in Gbise and Zaki Biam in Benue and Taraba States have killed two gang members of the Gana-led criminal gang in Benue State in a recent attack. A statement signed on Sunday by Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, said other gang members fled with various degrees of gunshot wounds. He said the operation, which took place on the 16th May, had the troops raid the hideout of the wanted notorious criminal named Gana in Mtan village in Utenge Council Ward of Katsina-Ala LGA of Benue State. According to Enenche, after the operation, it was revealed that Gana narrowly escaped death with gunshot wounds. Dear valued readers, subscribe to the Daily Trust e-paper to continue enjoying our diet of authoritative news. Kindly subscribe here He said items recovered from the gang’s hideout were; one locally fabricated machine gun, six locally made rifles, two locally fabricated cartridge guns, one dane gun, two revolver pistols, two cartridge pistols, 27 rounds of 9mm ammunition two Motorcycles, one Camouflage shirt, one generator set, one bag of gun powder and assorted charms. He said Gana’s personal belongings, other items and thatched houses were destroyed. Enenche also said that troops deployed at Ondori in Doma Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, based on credible intelligence gathered that a group of Bassa armed militia were planning to attack some Tiv villages over land disputes, raided their camp and apprehended seven members of the Bassa militia dressed in Red shirts in the camp. He said that the items recovered were; one locally fabricated machine gun, six locally fabricated rifles, two locally fabricated cartridge guns, one dane gun, two revolver pistols, two cartridge firing pistols, 57 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, 29 rounds of 9mm ammunition, and 22 cartridges of ammunition. He said other items were; one dagger, poisoned bows and arrows, desert Camouflage head gears and pouch, six phone handsets and some charms. Enenche added that the suspects were currently undergoing interrogation and would be handed over to the Nigeria Police afterwards.