Four months after the commencement of MTN free data offer for primary and secondary schools, over 500,000 students are utilising the daily 500 megabytes data. MTN Nigeria had in June, 2020 commenced a free data offer enabling primary and secondary school students to access educational content. The e-learning support has since then continued with over 500,000 students now receiving free access to online learning. With the closure of schools to mitigate further spread of COVID-19, the intervention was done in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Education, allowing primary and secondary school student’s access to virtual lessons and exam preparation. The Chief Marketing Officer, MTN Nigeria, Rahul De, said education is vital to the growth and development of any country. “We are committed to supporting learning and we are humbled at how well the offer has been received and hope students and parents will continue to take advantage of the opportunity to learn and shine. “We understand the challenges everyone is going through in this period and commit to helping wherever we can.” Four months after the commencement of MTN free data offer for primary and secondary schools, over 500,000 students are utilising the daily 500 megabytes data. MTN Nigeria had in June, 2020 commenced a free data offer enabling primary and secondary school students to access educational content. The e-learning support has since then continued with over 500,000 students now receiving free access to online learning. With the closure of schools to mitigate further spread of COVID-19, the intervention was done in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Education, allowing primary and secondary school student’s access to virtual lessons and exam preparation. The Chief Marketing Officer, MTN Nigeria, Rahul De, said education is vital to the growth and development of any country. “We are committed to supporting learning and we are humbled at how well the offer has been received and hope students and parents will continue to take advantage of the opportunity to learn and shine. “We understand the challenges everyone is going through in this period and commit to helping wherever we can.”