President and Chief Executive Officer of Erisco Foods Limited, Mr. Eric Umeofia, has given out N100 million and an array of Erisco food products as a palliative for COVID-19. He presented these to beneficiaries at the Amichi Development Union, Lagos branch, Thanksgiving/meeting in Lagos where 10 people became millionaires, including a widow and nine men from the four quarters of Amichi including Okpala, Eze Udene, Afube and Ebenasa. Others got varied cash donations through the open ballot process. Nine women and four men runners up in the ballot got N100,000 each. 50 other women and 50 men from the Lagos branch of the union got N50,000 each. Umeofia also said he reserved N40m for 40 deserving men and women of his immediate kindreds. “The motive behind the benevolence was basically to lift as many people from my community out of poverty in view of the post-COVID-19 challenges in line with his original vision of creating jobs, alleviating poverty and youth empowerment.” Chairman of the Interim government of the union in Lagos, Chief Mike Umeh, urged the beneficiaries to make good use of the money in order for them to be a blessing to others. President and Chief Executive Officer of Erisco Foods Limited, Mr. Eric Umeofia, has given out N100 million and an array of Erisco food products as a palliative for COVID-19. He presented these to beneficiaries at the Amichi Development Union, Lagos branch, Thanksgiving/meeting in Lagos where 10 people became millionaires, including a widow and nine men from the four quarters of Amichi including Okpala, Eze Udene, Afube and Ebenasa. Others got varied cash donations through the open ballot process. Nine women and four men runners up in the ballot got N100,000 each. 50 other women and 50 men from the Lagos branch of the union got N50,000 each. Umeofia also said he reserved N40m for 40 deserving men and women of his immediate kindreds. “The motive behind the benevolence was basically to lift as many people from my community out of poverty in view of the post-COVID-19 challenges in line with his original vision of creating jobs, alleviating poverty and youth empowerment.” Chairman of the Interim government of the union in Lagos, Chief Mike Umeh, urged the beneficiaries to make good use of the money in order for them to be a blessing to others.