The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is planning to spend N40bn in 2021 as contained in the 2021 budget proposal submitted to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari. President Buhari had on October 8, presented the N13.08trn budget estimates for the 2021 fiscal year, to the joint session of the National Assembly, while the Budget Office of the Federation, on October 9, released the details of the budget. However, the details of the N40bn proposed for the electoral body were unavailable in the breakdown of the budget proposal. INEC’s budget is a ‘one-line’ item, like the National Assembly’s N128bn proposal. The Breakdown According to the breakdown of the budget, INEC detailed expenditures were not given as the amount was just listed under the line items of expenditure, personnel cost, salary, salaries and wages, salary total personnel, total overhead, total recurrent, total capital and total retained independent revenue. There was no mention of INEC in the 2020 budget. While there are a series of activities that may be undertaken by INEC next year, Anambra State’s governorship election likely to be held in November 2021 is the major activity of the commission. INEC Reacts When contacted, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee (IVEC), Festus Okoye, said there is no way the commission could have a budget proposed for approval without the details. He also promised to check with the appropriate unit and get back to our reporter for the requested details. However, he did not do that five days after the request was made. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is planning to spend N40bn in 2021 as contained in the 2021 budget proposal submitted to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari. President Buhari had on October 8, presented the N13.08trn budget estimates for the 2021 fiscal year, to the joint session of the National Assembly, while the Budget Office of the Federation, on October 9, released the details of the budget. However, the details of the N40bn proposed for the electoral body were unavailable in the breakdown of the budget proposal. INEC’s budget is a ‘one-line’ item, like the National Assembly’s N128bn proposal. The Breakdown According to the breakdown of the budget, INEC detailed expenditures were not given as the amount was just listed under the line items of expenditure, personnel cost, salary, salaries and wages, salary total personnel, total overhead, total recurrent, total capital and total retained independent revenue. There was no mention of INEC in the 2020 budget. While there are a series of activities that may be undertaken by INEC next year, Anambra State’s governorship election likely to be held in November 2021 is the major activity of the commission. INEC Reacts When contacted, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee (IVEC), Festus Okoye, said there is no way the commission could have a budget proposed for approval without the details. He also promised to check with the appropriate unit and get back to our reporter for the requested details. However, he did not do that five days after the request was made.