The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State are trading blames over thugs attack in the state. The party said yesterday that the state government would be held responsible should there be further breakdown of law and order in the state. The party alleged that “armed thugs sponsored by the governor are now going about attacking people and destroying properties.” The State Publicity Secretary of the party, Raphael Adeyanju, in a statement yesterday, said it would get to a point that the people would be forced to defend themselves if the government that should protect them was the one unleashing thugs on them and the consequences would not be palatable for anyone. But, reacting to the allegation, the Publicity Secretary of APC in Ekiti, Ade Ajayi, accused PDP of subversive activities. “The real motive of the PDP in Ekiti State after failing woefully at the 2018 gubernatorial elections has been to sneak back to power through the back door. “The PDP hid under the recent #EndSARS protest to sponsor thugs to hijack the peaceful protest,” APC said. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State are trading blames over thugs attack in the state. The party said yesterday that the state government would be held responsible should there be further breakdown of law and order in the state. The party alleged that “armed thugs sponsored by the governor are now going about attacking people and destroying properties.” The State Publicity Secretary of the party, Raphael Adeyanju, in a statement yesterday, said it would get to a point that the people would be forced to defend themselves if the government that should protect them was the one unleashing thugs on them and the consequences would not be palatable for anyone. But, reacting to the allegation, the Publicity Secretary of APC in Ekiti, Ade Ajayi, accused PDP of subversive activities. “The real motive of the PDP in Ekiti State after failing woefully at the 2018 gubernatorial elections has been to sneak back to power through the back door. “The PDP hid under the recent #EndSARS protest to sponsor thugs to hijack the peaceful protest,” APC said.