The Rotary Club of Abuja, on Wednesday, trained 20 teachers selected from public secondary schools in the FCT on e-learning. Rotary also donated five desktop computers, tables and chairs, internet router, one DSTV dish and a television set to the Junior Secondary School (JSS), Piwoyi. Dr. Patrick Ezie, President of the club, said, “during the COVID-19 lockdown, we noticed a large disparity between the private and public schools in terms of e-learning. “We noticed that the students from the private schools were able to learn easily via zoom and other e-learning platforms while their counterparts in the public schools were lagging behind. “We decided to raise the consciousness of our students to understand that the world is becoming a global community and it will be a disability to have students who do not have e-learning knowledge and capacity. “That is why we decided to train these teachers who will also use the knowledge they get to train their students.” On the donation of the items to JSS, Piwoyi, Ezie added that it was the club’s desire to see FCT students at par with the international community in today’s era of e-learning. He, therefore, called on government and other well-meaning Nigerians to support the Universal Basic Education Board (UBEB) to provide basic amenities and learning equipment to various schools in rural communities in the country. Dr. Ibrahim Mutazu, Chairman of FCT UBEB, appreciated the club for organising the training for the teachers and donating the facilities to the school. Dr. Mutazu, who was represented by Dr. Emmanuel Shuaibu, added that rehabilitation of school buildings without training of the teachers would bring about fruitless labour. He advised the teachers to transmit the knowledge gathered from the training to their students, as well as their colleagues. Mrs. Pauline Nwagugu, Principal of the JSS, Piwoyi, appreciated the club for the donation and promised that the items would be put into quality use for the benefit of the students. Mr. Adoga Haruna, a teacher from JSS, Byazhin, Abuja, said the training had exposed them to new ways of teaching and how to improve the educational performance of their students. (NAN) The Rotary Club of Abuja, on Wednesday, trained 20 teachers selected from public secondary schools in the FCT on e-learning. Rotary also donated five desktop computers, tables and chairs, internet router, one DSTV dish and a television set to the Junior Secondary School (JSS), Piwoyi. Dr. Patrick Ezie, President of the club, said, “during the COVID-19 lockdown, we noticed a large disparity between the private and public schools in terms of e-learning. “We noticed that the students from the private schools were able to learn easily via zoom and other e-learning platforms while their counterparts in the public schools were lagging behind. “We decided to raise the consciousness of our students to understand that the world is becoming a global community and it will be a disability to have students who do not have e-learning knowledge and capacity. “That is why we decided to train these teachers who will also use the knowledge they get to train their students.” On the donation of the items to JSS, Piwoyi, Ezie added that it was the club’s desire to see FCT students at par with the international community in today’s era of e-learning. He, therefore, called on government and other well-meaning Nigerians to support the Universal Basic Education Board (UBEB) to provide basic amenities and learning equipment to various schools in rural communities in the country. Dr. Ibrahim Mutazu, Chairman of FCT UBEB, appreciated the club for organising the training for the teachers and donating the facilities to the school. Dr. Mutazu, who was represented by Dr. Emmanuel Shuaibu, added that rehabilitation of school buildings without training of the teachers would bring about fruitless labour. He advised the teachers to transmit the knowledge gathered from the training to their students, as well as their colleagues. Mrs. Pauline Nwagugu, Principal of the JSS, Piwoyi, appreciated the club for the donation and promised that the items would be put into quality use for the benefit of the students. Mr. Adoga Haruna, a teacher from JSS, Byazhin, Abuja, said the training had exposed them to new ways of teaching and how to improve the educational performance of their students. (NAN)