The Federal Government has given Airtel Nigeria three days to fix its network and respond to customers’ complaints. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami gave the directive through the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) on Tuesday. In a tweet on his Twitter handle @DrIsaPantami, Pantami told the NCC to investigate the customers’ complaints against Airtel Nigeria and report their findings to his office before Friday this week. “Please @NgComCommission, there are so many complaints about @AirtelNigeria reaching me yesterday (Monday) and today (Tuesday). Investigate the complaint, ensure justice and send a report to me within three working days. In addition, customers/citizens must be respected and protected. Best wishes!”, the minister said. An enquiry from Daily Trust was not answered by Airtel Nigeria as the time of filing this report. But the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators (ALTON) admitted last week there were fluctuations in data and voice calls across the country due to damage to some telecom facilities. “Unfortunately, some of our member operators experienced outages on their networks on Tuesday evening and this still subsists till the moment’’, ALTON said. The operators said the outages had been compounded by power and other operations-related issues that had occurred across some major routes in Lagos metropolis and other states resulting in congestion of networks and impact on quality of services. They appealed to subscribers to bear with them and be patient.  The Federal Government has given Airtel Nigeria three days to fix its network and respond to customers’ complaints. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami gave the directive through the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) on Tuesday. In a tweet on his Twitter handle @DrIsaPantami, Pantami told the NCC to investigate the customers’ complaints against Airtel Nigeria and report their findings to his office before Friday this week. “Please @NgComCommission, there are so many complaints about @AirtelNigeria reaching me yesterday (Monday) and today (Tuesday). Investigate the complaint, ensure justice and send a report to me within three working days. In addition, customers/citizens must be respected and protected. Best wishes!”, the minister said. An enquiry from Daily Trust was not answered by Airtel Nigeria as the time of filing this report. But the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators (ALTON) admitted last week there were fluctuations in data and voice calls across the country due to damage to some telecom facilities. “Unfortunately, some of our member operators experienced outages on their networks on Tuesday evening and this still subsists till the moment’’, ALTON said. The operators said the outages had been compounded by power and other operations-related issues that had occurred across some major routes in Lagos metropolis and other states resulting in congestion of networks and impact on quality of services. They appealed to subscribers to bear with them and be patient. 