The management of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) said the company is improving on customer care and electricity supply services by investing hugely in technology. The General Manager, Customer Services at AEDC, Hajiya Safiya Tiffi Bello, said this when she and the General Manager, Corporate Communications of AEDC, Mr Oyebode Fadipe, paid a courtesy visit to the head office of Media Trust Limited (MTL), publishers of the Daily Trust newspaper and other titles in Abuja on Thursday. The customer care expert said the visit was part of the Customer Service Week, tagged, ‘Dream Team’, while appreciating customers. “This year’s theme is ‘Dream Team’ because of the COVID-19 and work ethics have changed and we need to make progress. “We were able to achieve a lot because of collaborations.” Hajiya Bello said the team visited an orphanage home in Gwagwalada town of the FCT where it donated food items to it while mingling with the orphans. AEDC also had sessions on the Brekete programme of the Human Rights Radio station before visiting the publishers of Daily Trust, all in recognition of the vital role of the media in the development of the Nigerian power sector. She said the firm has invested more in its customer care technology to provide better services to its customers across its franchise areas of Kogi, Abuja, Nasarawa and Niger states. On his part, Mr Oyebode, who fielded questions from the editorial members of Daily Trust, said AEDC was ahead of its peers in the Meter Assets Providers (MAP) through its Integrated Commercial Management System (InCMS). To swiftly attend to complaints and resolve power supply issues, Mr Fadipe said, AEDC procured the overhead and underground cable fault detectors which have been useful in detecting faults and clearing them promptly. Editor in Chief of Daily Trust, Naziru Mikailu Abubakar, welcomed the AEDC team and lauded them for their continuous patronage. He assured that the medium will continue to support its objectives. “Overall, we don’t have serious issues; we have had good partnership and we will like to build on that.” On his part, the General Manager, Business and Strategy at MTL, Ahmed Shekarau, called for more partnerships with the company especially on the Co-Creative Content (CCC) page where AEDC could enlighten its customers more about its activities. The management of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) said the company is improving on customer care and electricity supply services by investing hugely in technology. The General Manager, Customer Services at AEDC, Hajiya Safiya Tiffi Bello, said this when she and the General Manager, Corporate Communications of AEDC, Mr Oyebode Fadipe, paid a courtesy visit to the head office of Media Trust Limited (MTL), publishers of the Daily Trust newspaper and other titles in Abuja on Thursday. The customer care expert said the visit was part of the Customer Service Week, tagged, ‘Dream Team’, while appreciating customers. “This year’s theme is ‘Dream Team’ because of the COVID-19 and work ethics have changed and we need to make progress. “We were able to achieve a lot because of collaborations.” Hajiya Bello said the team visited an orphanage home in Gwagwalada town of the FCT where it donated food items to it while mingling with the orphans. AEDC also had sessions on the Brekete programme of the Human Rights Radio station before visiting the publishers of Daily Trust, all in recognition of the vital role of the media in the development of the Nigerian power sector. She said the firm has invested more in its customer care technology to provide better services to its customers across its franchise areas of Kogi, Abuja, Nasarawa and Niger states. On his part, Mr Oyebode, who fielded questions from the editorial members of Daily Trust, said AEDC was ahead of its peers in the Meter Assets Providers (MAP) through its Integrated Commercial Management System (InCMS). To swiftly attend to complaints and resolve power supply issues, Mr Fadipe said, AEDC procured the overhead and underground cable fault detectors which have been useful in detecting faults and clearing them promptly. Editor in Chief of Daily Trust, Naziru Mikailu Abubakar, welcomed the AEDC team and lauded them for their continuous patronage. He assured that the medium will continue to support its objectives. “Overall, we don’t have serious issues; we have had good partnership and we will like to build on that.” On his part, the General Manager, Business and Strategy at MTL, Ahmed Shekarau, called for more partnerships with the company especially on the Co-Creative Content (CCC) page where AEDC could enlighten its customers more about its activities.