The Board of Trustees (BOT) of Oil and Solid Minerals Producing Area Landlords Association of Nigeria (OMPALAN) has urged the youths to cease the nation-wide protests which have turned violent in many states. #EndSARS protests have raged across the country aimed at ending police brutality. According to a statement signed by Bishop Udo Azogu, chairman of the BOT, Professor Eyo Etim, secretary and Chief Chibunna Ubawuike, Imo State chairman and made available to City News, the demands of the protesting youths were genuine but there was need to maintain peace in the country. “OMPALAN calls for immediate cessation of the nation-wide demonstrations in view of government’s endorsement of the initial five-point demand by the protesters. This will enable government to fully deploy its machinery to attend to the demands of the protesting youths without distractions. It will also close the door to miscreants desiring to use the occasion to cause a breach of constitutional peace and order as is being witnessed across the country. The Board of Trustees (BOT) of Oil and Solid Minerals Producing Area Landlords Association of Nigeria (OMPALAN) has urged the youths to cease the nation-wide protests which have turned violent in many states. #EndSARS protests have raged across the country aimed at ending police brutality. According to a statement signed by Bishop Udo Azogu, chairman of the BOT, Professor Eyo Etim, secretary and Chief Chibunna Ubawuike, Imo State chairman and made available to City News, the demands of the protesting youths were genuine but there was need to maintain peace in the country. “OMPALAN calls for immediate cessation of the nation-wide demonstrations in view of government’s endorsement of the initial five-point demand by the protesters. This will enable government to fully deploy its machinery to attend to the demands of the protesting youths without distractions. It will also close the door to miscreants desiring to use the occasion to cause a breach of constitutional peace and order as is being witnessed across the country.