The Director-General of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Alhaji Salihu Lukman Mohammed, has said the #EndSARS protest is a threat to the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) chances of retaining power in the 2023 general elections. Mohammed, in a statement on Thursday, said unless the APC top echelon developed a strong national response and restored peace in the country, the party would lose its credibility and chances of winning future elections. The PGF’s Director-General said Nigeria is in crisis, adding that if APC leaders continued to keep mum, the crisis would consume more lives and property. He asked the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC national caretaker committee to call for an emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting to ensure a coordinated political response to the crisis. “If care is not taken, we may as well be writing our names as a generation of political leaders into a national black book. The implication of that may not be apparent at the moment. We therefore need to appeal to all our leaders to please treat the current situation with the utmost urgency it requires. “This means winning elections in the country by APC, especially in the crisis-affected areas, will just be a daydream,” he said.  The Director-General of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Alhaji Salihu Lukman Mohammed, has said the #EndSARS protest is a threat to the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) chances of retaining power in the 2023 general elections. Mohammed, in a statement on Thursday, said unless the APC top echelon developed a strong national response and restored peace in the country, the party would lose its credibility and chances of winning future elections. The PGF’s Director-General said Nigeria is in crisis, adding that if APC leaders continued to keep mum, the crisis would consume more lives and property. He asked the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC national caretaker committee to call for an emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting to ensure a coordinated political response to the crisis. “If care is not taken, we may as well be writing our names as a generation of political leaders into a national black book. The implication of that may not be apparent at the moment. We therefore need to appeal to all our leaders to please treat the current situation with the utmost urgency it requires. “This means winning elections in the country by APC, especially in the crisis-affected areas, will just be a daydream,” he said. 