The Member representing Ado/Ogbadigbo/Okpokwu Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Francis Ottah Agbo has called for the restructuring of the country as Nigeria marks its 60th Independence anniversary. In a statement signed by his media adviser, Andrew Agbese, he said the current structure of the country has left many grey areas that threaten the corporate existence of Nigeria which would be addressed once the country is restructured. According to him, restructuring will give all Nigerians sense of belonging and halt the country from disintegration as it would address most of the grievances and agitations by sections of the country. Agbo, who is the chairman of the House Committee on Drugs and Narcotics, said restructuring will address issues like the devolution of power, fiscal federalism, rotation of elected offices and others that the people feel very strongly about. “As we mark our 60th Independence anniversary, I call for the restructuring of Nigeria to address all the areas our current structure had failed to address.” The lawmaker added that the unity of Nigeria should be given paramount consideration as Nigeria cannot afford to disintegrate, stressing that the founding fathers of Nigeria never made a mistake in founding the country. The Member representing Ado/Ogbadigbo/Okpokwu Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Francis Ottah Agbo has called for the restructuring of the country as Nigeria marks its 60th Independence anniversary. In a statement signed by his media adviser, Andrew Agbese, he said the current structure of the country has left many grey areas that threaten the corporate existence of Nigeria which would be addressed once the country is restructured. According to him, restructuring will give all Nigerians sense of belonging and halt the country from disintegration as it would address most of the grievances and agitations by sections of the country. Agbo, who is the chairman of the House Committee on Drugs and Narcotics, said restructuring will address issues like the devolution of power, fiscal federalism, rotation of elected offices and others that the people feel very strongly about. “As we mark our 60th Independence anniversary, I call for the restructuring of Nigeria to address all the areas our current structure had failed to address.” The lawmaker added that the unity of Nigeria should be given paramount consideration as Nigeria cannot afford to disintegrate, stressing that the founding fathers of Nigeria never made a mistake in founding the country.