A member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Campaign Committee for Ondo State governorship election, Mr Osita Okechukwu, has dismissed fears that the alliance of 11 political parties will stop the party’s candidate, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu’s re-election. The Accord Party (AP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), African Democratic Party (ADP) and eight others had, on Monday, declared support for candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Eyitayo Jegede, ahead of this Saturday’s governorship election in Ondo State. But addressing a press conference on Tuesday in Abuja, Okechukwu, the Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), said the APC was sure of victory, not only because of Akeredolu’s incumbency factor, but going by his “sterling performance” in his first term. He said Akeredolu’s achievements extended across his Ondo North Senatorial District, as well as the Ondo Central Senatorial District of Eyitayo Jegede and Southern Senatorial District of Chief Agboola Ajayi, the deputy governor who is also in the race. Ondo State people, Okechukwu said, were yearning for more and would vote for the APC candidate to consolidate on the “numerous gains” made so far, in his first tenure. “The APC National Campaign Committee sent some of us to Ondo State for on the spot assessment of our chances. “We spent seven days mingling with people of all classes and cadre. “To be frank, without being immodest, Akeredolu’s chances of winning the election hover between 55 and 58 percent. “[Be] reminded that President Buhari has vowed to uphold the best tenets of free and fair election as the bedrock of democracy, making the use of the proverbial federal might a mirage,” Okechukwu said. A member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Campaign Committee for Ondo State governorship election, Mr Osita Okechukwu, has dismissed fears that the alliance of 11 political parties will stop the party’s candidate, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu’s re-election. The Accord Party (AP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), African Democratic Party (ADP) and eight others had, on Monday, declared support for candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Eyitayo Jegede, ahead of this Saturday’s governorship election in Ondo State. But addressing a press conference on Tuesday in Abuja, Okechukwu, the Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), said the APC was sure of victory, not only because of Akeredolu’s incumbency factor, but going by his “sterling performance” in his first term. He said Akeredolu’s achievements extended across his Ondo North Senatorial District, as well as the Ondo Central Senatorial District of Eyitayo Jegede and Southern Senatorial District of Chief Agboola Ajayi, the deputy governor who is also in the race. Ondo State people, Okechukwu said, were yearning for more and would vote for the APC candidate to consolidate on the “numerous gains” made so far, in his first tenure. “The APC National Campaign Committee sent some of us to Ondo State for on the spot assessment of our chances. “We spent seven days mingling with people of all classes and cadre. “To be frank, without being immodest, Akeredolu’s chances of winning the election hover between 55 and 58 percent. “[Be] reminded that President Buhari has vowed to uphold the best tenets of free and fair election as the bedrock of democracy, making the use of the proverbial federal might a mirage,” Okechukwu said.