Jaiz Bank Plc, the premier non-interest financial institution in Nigeria plans to deepen financial inclusion in Jigawa State by providing the needed financing to operators of small and medium sized businesses and farmers through a new branch. Managing Director/CE, Hassan Usman, gave this hint when he paid a courtesy visit to the Governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, at the government House, Dutse. He said the bank was ready to open a branch in the state to target women, farmers and operators of small businesses and “through this we would assist them to expand their businesses as well as being financially included.” Usman also told the governor that the proposed branch in the state is likely to open for business by early next year and therefore solicited for the cooperation and support of the state government towards a smooth operation in the state. Governor Badaru assured the Management of the state government’s support and instantly set up a technical committee from the state government to work with the Jaiz Bank team to work together on MSME projects that will uplift the betterment of the people in the state. Jaiz Bank Plc, the premier non-interest financial institution in Nigeria plans to deepen financial inclusion in Jigawa State by providing the needed financing to operators of small and medium sized businesses and farmers through a new branch. Managing Director/CE, Hassan Usman, gave this hint when he paid a courtesy visit to the Governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, at the government House, Dutse. He said the bank was ready to open a branch in the state to target women, farmers and operators of small businesses and “through this we would assist them to expand their businesses as well as being financially included.” Usman also told the governor that the proposed branch in the state is likely to open for business by early next year and therefore solicited for the cooperation and support of the state government towards a smooth operation in the state. Governor Badaru assured the Management of the state government’s support and instantly set up a technical committee from the state government to work with the Jaiz Bank team to work together on MSME projects that will uplift the betterment of the people in the state.