A former governor of Jigawa State, Dr Sule Lamido, has said that he cannot advise president Muhammadu Buhari on ways to make his government better for Nigerians. Lamido was speaking to BBC Hausa on the sidelines of Nigeria’s 60th Independence anniversary, the country which he said has recorded number of success despite many setbacks. “You can’t say in the past 60 years of our independence that there is no progress, there is. “But, honestly, our leaders are not taking advantage of the natural resources we have in the country to make us progress and live better,” he said. The former governor said he cannot pray or advise someone who called him a thief and chased him out of power. He added that it is left for Nigerians to weight this administration and see the difference so as to let All Progressives Congress, APC, continue or vote them out. “I am from an opposition party, no matter how much I love Buhari or his cabinet, I can’t enter mosque and pray for him. “People called us [PDP] thieves and voted APC. “So, it is left for them to judge now. “If Buhari is doing good, they know and let him lead Nigeria forever, but if he is doing wrong, we are always there to come and takeover in order to do the right thing.” A former governor of Jigawa State, Dr Sule Lamido, has said that he cannot advise president Muhammadu Buhari on ways to make his government better for Nigerians. Lamido was speaking to BBC Hausa on the sidelines of Nigeria’s 60th Independence anniversary, the country which he said has recorded number of success despite many setbacks. “You can’t say in the past 60 years of our independence that there is no progress, there is. “But, honestly, our leaders are not taking advantage of the natural resources we have in the country to make us progress and live better,” he said. The former governor said he cannot pray or advise someone who called him a thief and chased him out of power. He added that it is left for Nigerians to weight this administration and see the difference so as to let All Progressives Congress, APC, continue or vote them out. “I am from an opposition party, no matter how much I love Buhari or his cabinet, I can’t enter mosque and pray for him. “People called us [PDP] thieves and voted APC. “So, it is left for them to judge now. “If Buhari is doing good, they know and let him lead Nigeria forever, but if he is doing wrong, we are always there to come and takeover in order to do the right thing.”