The Consumer Awareness and Financial Enlightenment Initiative (CAFEi) said it will host a webinar as part of its activities marking World Savings Day. The Zoom webinar which is scheduled to be held on Saturday is themed ‘Saving Culture: A Must for a Secured Future’. The event is aimed at increasing awareness among children on the importance of savings. The Day is celebrated by over 80 countries on 31 October to increase public awareness of the importance of savings for economies and individuals. It began on October 31, 1924, during the 1st International Savings Bank Congress (World Society of Savings Bank) in Milano, Italy. The webinar would feature educationists and financial experts including Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo, Commissioner for Education, Lagos State; Mrs.Tabitha Wilson, Director of Art at St. Francis College, Letchworth, United Kingdom; Mr. Ikemefula Nwachukwu, Head, Personal Banking, First Bank, and Mrs. Bisi Adeyemi, Managing Director, DCSL Corporate Services. Commenting, President of CAFEi, Otunba (Mrs) Debola Osibogun, said, “Good savings habits combined with budgeting, allow children to develop financial discipline, a skill applicable to other areas of their life. Good savings culture early in life is a foundation for future financial security.” She encouraged parents to invite their children to join the webinar so they can participate and learn the value of saving. The Consumer Awareness and Financial Enlightenment Initiative (CAFEi) said it will host a webinar as part of its activities marking World Savings Day. The Zoom webinar which is scheduled to be held on Saturday is themed ‘Saving Culture: A Must for a Secured Future’. The event is aimed at increasing awareness among children on the importance of savings. The Day is celebrated by over 80 countries on 31 October to increase public awareness of the importance of savings for economies and individuals. It began on October 31, 1924, during the 1st International Savings Bank Congress (World Society of Savings Bank) in Milano, Italy. The webinar would feature educationists and financial experts including Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo, Commissioner for Education, Lagos State; Mrs.Tabitha Wilson, Director of Art at St. Francis College, Letchworth, United Kingdom; Mr. Ikemefula Nwachukwu, Head, Personal Banking, First Bank, and Mrs. Bisi Adeyemi, Managing Director, DCSL Corporate Services. Commenting, President of CAFEi, Otunba (Mrs) Debola Osibogun, said, “Good savings habits combined with budgeting, allow children to develop financial discipline, a skill applicable to other areas of their life. Good savings culture early in life is a foundation for future financial security.” She encouraged parents to invite their children to join the webinar so they can participate and learn the value of saving.