The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) has backed President Muhammadu Buhari’s nomination of Aisha Umar-Dahir as the Director-General of the National Pension Commission (PenCom). A statement by the President, Comrade Quadri Olaleye and the Secretary-General, Comrade Musa-Lawal Ozigi, said: “As a stakeholder, we have watched with keen interest the activities of the Commission and can say that Mrs. Umar has done creditably well enough to earn a promotion.” The Congress said that before now Nigeria had had issues with payment of pension and pensioners were dying without being paid statutorily stipulated percentage of their contribution due to them at retirement. “The story is changing.” It however sought the amendment of the Pension Reform Act, 2014 (PRA, 2014) to allow workers to be paid up to 50 per cent of their contribution at retirement to enable them establish petty businesses to complement whatever amount the Commission pays them at the end of the month. “On the Micro Pension Plan embarked upon to improve the standard of living of the informal sector participants at retirement and also reduce dependence on extended family, we would also appreciate it if the course is followed squarely because of its benefit and tendency to boost life expectancy,” the Congress said.  The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) has backed President Muhammadu Buhari’s nomination of Aisha Umar-Dahir as the Director-General of the National Pension Commission (PenCom). A statement by the President, Comrade Quadri Olaleye and the Secretary-General, Comrade Musa-Lawal Ozigi, said: “As a stakeholder, we have watched with keen interest the activities of the Commission and can say that Mrs. Umar has done creditably well enough to earn a promotion.” The Congress said that before now Nigeria had had issues with payment of pension and pensioners were dying without being paid statutorily stipulated percentage of their contribution due to them at retirement. “The story is changing.” It however sought the amendment of the Pension Reform Act, 2014 (PRA, 2014) to allow workers to be paid up to 50 per cent of their contribution at retirement to enable them establish petty businesses to complement whatever amount the Commission pays them at the end of the month. “On the Micro Pension Plan embarked upon to improve the standard of living of the informal sector participants at retirement and also reduce dependence on extended family, we would also appreciate it if the course is followed squarely because of its benefit and tendency to boost life expectancy,” the Congress said. 