An All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain in Kaduna State, Yusuf Ali, has cautioned the chairman of the party’s caretaker committee, and governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, against seeking extension of the six-month tenure of his committee. He urged the Buni-led committee to hold the convention with a view to electing a new leadership for the party. Ali, in a statement issued in Kaduna, said a report making the round that the Buni-led committee is seeking extension to reform the party would be counter-productive. He said majority of members of the party welcomed the Buni-led caretaker committee with high expectations when it commenced the reconciliation of the estranged party members and leaders. He said they are aware that the caretaker committee has a six-month tenure within which to reconcile aggrieved members and set in motion steps to organise an extra-ordinary convention to elect the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) members. He said it was time for the Buni-led committee to come out with a clear time-table for the conduct of the extra-ordinary convention.  An All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain in Kaduna State, Yusuf Ali, has cautioned the chairman of the party’s caretaker committee, and governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, against seeking extension of the six-month tenure of his committee. He urged the Buni-led committee to hold the convention with a view to electing a new leadership for the party. Ali, in a statement issued in Kaduna, said a report making the round that the Buni-led committee is seeking extension to reform the party would be counter-productive. He said majority of members of the party welcomed the Buni-led caretaker committee with high expectations when it commenced the reconciliation of the estranged party members and leaders. He said they are aware that the caretaker committee has a six-month tenure within which to reconcile aggrieved members and set in motion steps to organise an extra-ordinary convention to elect the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) members. He said it was time for the Buni-led committee to come out with a clear time-table for the conduct of the extra-ordinary convention. 