A chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), in Edo state, Osaretin Ovbieko, has said that trust and conscience worked against the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, in the just concluded governorship election in the state. Speaking with journalists at the weekend in Benin City, he said the people needed to reward trust found in governor Godwin Obaseki with with his reelection as against the distrust which they found in the candidate of the APC, Pastor Osagie Ize-iyamu by moving from one party to another in quest for power. “You know that truth work inline with conscience, so, conscience and trust worked against the APC and it’s candidate in Edo poll,” he said. He said the election was a protest vote across board, especially from the youths, who had realized that narratives must change. He however noted that with Edo election, APC is going into extinction by 2023, after President Muhammadu Buhari. Meanwhile, PDP state publicity secretary, Chris Nehikhare, assured that the state would witness rapid development for re-electing governor Obaseki on the platform of the party. He gave the assurance on Sunday during a thank you tour of Ogbeka and other wards in Orhionmwon local government council in the state. According to him, Obaseki will give priority attention to rural communities in his quest to develop the state . A chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), in Edo state, Osaretin Ovbieko, has said that trust and conscience worked against the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, in the just concluded governorship election in the state. Speaking with journalists at the weekend in Benin City, he said the people needed to reward trust found in governor Godwin Obaseki with with his reelection as against the distrust which they found in the candidate of the APC, Pastor Osagie Ize-iyamu by moving from one party to another in quest for power. “You know that truth work inline with conscience, so, conscience and trust worked against the APC and it’s candidate in Edo poll,” he said. He said the election was a protest vote across board, especially from the youths, who had realized that narratives must change. He however noted that with Edo election, APC is going into extinction by 2023, after President Muhammadu Buhari. Meanwhile, PDP state publicity secretary, Chris Nehikhare, assured that the state would witness rapid development for re-electing governor Obaseki on the platform of the party. He gave the assurance on Sunday during a thank you tour of Ogbeka and other wards in Orhionmwon local government council in the state. According to him, Obaseki will give priority attention to rural communities in his quest to develop the state .