The Lagos State Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke, has said there are plans to create a virtual market for artisans, for clients to engage them online. Arobieke made the disclosure at the distribution of 12,000 COVID-19 relief packages to the leadership of Lagos State Council for Tradesman and Artisans (LASCOTA) for re-distribution to registered members. She enjoined artisans in the State to register with the Ministry in order to have a database for all members of LASCOTA, noting that some of the initiatives adopted by the present administration to bring succour to the sector include granting of subvention to artisans, up-skilling and training of artisans; enhance their skills and provide access to loan facilities among others. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mrs. Boladele Dapo-Thomas also encouraged artisans in the State to take advantage of the many initiatives provided by the government to enhance their skills, adding that it will help to improve their lifestyles and economic development of Lagos.  The Lagos State Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke, has said there are plans to create a virtual market for artisans, for clients to engage them online. Arobieke made the disclosure at the distribution of 12,000 COVID-19 relief packages to the leadership of Lagos State Council for Tradesman and Artisans (LASCOTA) for re-distribution to registered members. She enjoined artisans in the State to register with the Ministry in order to have a database for all members of LASCOTA, noting that some of the initiatives adopted by the present administration to bring succour to the sector include granting of subvention to artisans, up-skilling and training of artisans; enhance their skills and provide access to loan facilities among others. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mrs. Boladele Dapo-Thomas also encouraged artisans in the State to take advantage of the many initiatives provided by the government to enhance their skills, adding that it will help to improve their lifestyles and economic development of Lagos. 