A local ground handling service provider, Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (NAHCO) has signed contracts with Qatar Airways, for another five years for a handling contract. NAHCO’s Group Executive Director, Business Development and Commercial, Prince Saheed Lasisi, said the development shows a boost for both companies, as NAHCO is primed to continue its excellent service delivery to the airline. “With the new contract, which runs for five years and coupled with the additional frequencies of Qatar flights to Nigeria and Ghana, we are glad to go even further to provide the top-notched services for which we are known and have offered the airline for the past nine years,” he said in a statement. NAHCO also signed another contract with Azman Air on its international route, in addition to the previously held contracts for Azman’s domestic operations. Azman has recently been granted approval to commence international operations with its newly acquired A340-600 series. Meanwhile, the Group Managing Director of NAHCO, Mrs. Olatokunbo Fagbemi, has expressed NAHCO’s readiness to work with the National Trade Facilitation Committee of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment to improve the nation’s capacity for export. She made the statement during a visit of the committee on an inspection tour of the company’s facility.  A local ground handling service provider, Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (NAHCO) has signed contracts with Qatar Airways, for another five years for a handling contract. NAHCO’s Group Executive Director, Business Development and Commercial, Prince Saheed Lasisi, said the development shows a boost for both companies, as NAHCO is primed to continue its excellent service delivery to the airline. “With the new contract, which runs for five years and coupled with the additional frequencies of Qatar flights to Nigeria and Ghana, we are glad to go even further to provide the top-notched services for which we are known and have offered the airline for the past nine years,” he said in a statement. NAHCO also signed another contract with Azman Air on its international route, in addition to the previously held contracts for Azman’s domestic operations. Azman has recently been granted approval to commence international operations with its newly acquired A340-600 series. Meanwhile, the Group Managing Director of NAHCO, Mrs. Olatokunbo Fagbemi, has expressed NAHCO’s readiness to work with the National Trade Facilitation Committee of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment to improve the nation’s capacity for export. She made the statement during a visit of the committee on an inspection tour of the company’s facility. 