The Anglican Diocese of Nike in Enugu State plans to provide education and health care delivery in the rural areas. This was contained in a statement issued on Monday in Enugu by the Bishop of the Diocese, Rt. Rev. Christian Onyia. Rev. Onyia stated that the diocese would equally embark on electrification of churches and schools in the rural areas to encourage pastors posted there. The statement read in parts: “In furtherance of the Ministry of the Great Commission and in recognition of the Ministry of Jesus Christ, which was not confined to a church building or even a corner, the diocese will be holding this year’s synod in a rural church in Owo. “We are not only taking the message of salvation to the people; but, we are also taking medical outreach, food, and education to the community and to other communities around the synod venue. “As part of the synod programmes, the diocese shall dedicate St. Luke’s the Physician Hospital, Enugu and Justice Dame Ijeoma Onwuamaegbu Hospital and Maternity at, Neke-Uno in Enugu State. “In this diocese, we focus more on rural communities as our diocese is 30 per cent urban and 70 per cent rural and rural mission is our target. “We have been planting churches and schools in rural areas to bring evangelism and quality education to the people. “ In addition, due to lack of basic infrastructure in these areas, the diocese has started fixing solar panel electricity in rural communities in the state in order to win souls for Christ and also to encourage pastors posted to rural areas.’’ (NAN) The Anglican Diocese of Nike in Enugu State plans to provide education and health care delivery in the rural areas. This was contained in a statement issued on Monday in Enugu by the Bishop of the Diocese, Rt. Rev. Christian Onyia. Rev. Onyia stated that the diocese would equally embark on electrification of churches and schools in the rural areas to encourage pastors posted there. The statement read in parts: “In furtherance of the Ministry of the Great Commission and in recognition of the Ministry of Jesus Christ, which was not confined to a church building or even a corner, the diocese will be holding this year’s synod in a rural church in Owo. “We are not only taking the message of salvation to the people; but, we are also taking medical outreach, food, and education to the community and to other communities around the synod venue. “As part of the synod programmes, the diocese shall dedicate St. Luke’s the Physician Hospital, Enugu and Justice Dame Ijeoma Onwuamaegbu Hospital and Maternity at, Neke-Uno in Enugu State. “In this diocese, we focus more on rural communities as our diocese is 30 per cent urban and 70 per cent rural and rural mission is our target. “We have been planting churches and schools in rural areas to bring evangelism and quality education to the people. “ In addition, due to lack of basic infrastructure in these areas, the diocese has started fixing solar panel electricity in rural communities in the state in order to win souls for Christ and also to encourage pastors posted to rural areas.’’ (NAN)