The All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee led by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni on Thursday, met with the National Executive Committee (NEC) members under the aegis of Non National Working Committee (NWC) NEC members. The meeting took place at the APC National Secretariat in Abuja, where the NEC members demanded the Caretaker Committee to enthrone internal democracy, reward system, membership drive, and administrative structure among others. The Non-NWC NEC members in a position paper jointly signed by Abubakar Sadiq Saadu (Chairman) and David Okumba (Secretary) and addressed to the APC Caretaker Committee Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni also passed a vote of confidence on the Caretaker. The position paper reads in part, “Our concerns and recommendations are borne out of our collective desire for a more viable and prosperous APC. We wish to reaffirm our confidence in your ability to contribute meaningfully in salvaging our beloved party and return it to the fast lane of electoral victories.” Secretary of the APC Caretaker Committee, Sen. John Akpan Udoedehe said since the inauguration of the APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, the Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni has worked assiduously to bring peace and reposition the party. The All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee led by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni on Thursday, met with the National Executive Committee (NEC) members under the aegis of Non National Working Committee (NWC) NEC members. The meeting took place at the APC National Secretariat in Abuja, where the NEC members demanded the Caretaker Committee to enthrone internal democracy, reward system, membership drive, and administrative structure among others. The Non-NWC NEC members in a position paper jointly signed by Abubakar Sadiq Saadu (Chairman) and David Okumba (Secretary) and addressed to the APC Caretaker Committee Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni also passed a vote of confidence on the Caretaker. The position paper reads in part, “Our concerns and recommendations are borne out of our collective desire for a more viable and prosperous APC. We wish to reaffirm our confidence in your ability to contribute meaningfully in salvaging our beloved party and return it to the fast lane of electoral victories.” Secretary of the APC Caretaker Committee, Sen. John Akpan Udoedehe said since the inauguration of the APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, the Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni has worked assiduously to bring peace and reposition the party.