The Senate on Tuesday confirmed the nomination of eight Justices of the Court of Appeal for appointment as Justices of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. The confirmation of the nominees was sequel to the consideration of the report of the Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, chaired by Senator Opeyemi Bamidele (APC, Ekiti). President Muhammadu Buhari had, in a letter, requested the upper chamber to confirm the appointment of the Justices. The nominees confirmed are:  Hon. Justice M. Lawal Garba, JCA (North-West); Hon. Justice Helen M. Ogunwumiju, JCA (South-West); Hon. Justice Abdu Aboki, JCA (North-West); Hon. Justice I. M. M. Saulawa, JCA (North-West); Hon. Justice Adamu Jauro, JCA (North-East); Hon. Justice Samuel C. Oseji, JCA (South-South); Hon. Justice Tijjani Abubakar, JCA (North-East); and Hon. Justice Emmanuel A. Agim, JCA (South-South). Senator Bamidele, while presenting his committee’s report, said the appointment of the nominees satisfied the requirement of Sections 230 (2) and 231 (1) and (2) and (3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended). He said the nominees possess the requisite qualifications, integrity, leadership qualities and comportment to discharge judicial responsibilities as Honourable Justices of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. He further said that there was no petition against their nominations and record checks and other forms of investigations by security agencies did not reveal any negative trace against them. He therefore recommended their confirmation. Senate President Ahmad Lawan congratulated the nominees and urged the federal government to ensure that the Judiciary is well funded for justices and judges to carry out their constitutional mandates effectively. The Senate on Tuesday confirmed the nomination of eight Justices of the Court of Appeal for appointment as Justices of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. The confirmation of the nominees was sequel to the consideration of the report of the Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, chaired by Senator Opeyemi Bamidele (APC, Ekiti). President Muhammadu Buhari had, in a letter, requested the upper chamber to confirm the appointment of the Justices. The nominees confirmed are:  Hon. Justice M. Lawal Garba, JCA (North-West); Hon. Justice Helen M. Ogunwumiju, JCA (South-West); Hon. Justice Abdu Aboki, JCA (North-West); Hon. Justice I. M. M. Saulawa, JCA (North-West); Hon. Justice Adamu Jauro, JCA (North-East); Hon. Justice Samuel C. Oseji, JCA (South-South); Hon. Justice Tijjani Abubakar, JCA (North-East); and Hon. Justice Emmanuel A. Agim, JCA (South-South). Senator Bamidele, while presenting his committee’s report, said the appointment of the nominees satisfied the requirement of Sections 230 (2) and 231 (1) and (2) and (3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended). He said the nominees possess the requisite qualifications, integrity, leadership qualities and comportment to discharge judicial responsibilities as Honourable Justices of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. He further said that there was no petition against their nominations and record checks and other forms of investigations by security agencies did not reveal any negative trace against them. He therefore recommended their confirmation. Senate President Ahmad Lawan congratulated the nominees and urged the federal government to ensure that the Judiciary is well funded for justices and judges to carry out their constitutional mandates effectively.