The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) said the power grid has attained another all-time national peak of 5,459.50 megawatts (MW), which was efficiently transmitted through the nation’s transmission grid Wednesday night. In a statement by the General Manager, Public Affairs, Ndidi Mbah, on Thursday, TCN said this milestone in generation is higher than any peak ever recorded. The new peak surpasses the 5,420.30MW achieved on August 18, 2020 by 39.20MW. Commenting, the acting Managing Director of TCN, Engr. Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz, lauded all the power sector players while he attributed the gradual but steady improvement in the quantum of power delivery to their collaborations. He also acknowledged the sustained effort of the Federal Government, through the Ministry of Power, in setting the right environment for seamless operations. Engr. Abdulaziz was hopeful that stakeholders in the sector would continue to work together towards ensuring the continued increase in the quantum of power available to consumers nationwide. He noted that TCN is committed to working with the generation and distribution companies to ensure sustained improvement in the sector for the benefit of the nation. The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) said the power grid has attained another all-time national peak of 5,459.50 megawatts (MW), which was efficiently transmitted through the nation’s transmission grid Wednesday night. In a statement by the General Manager, Public Affairs, Ndidi Mbah, on Thursday, TCN said this milestone in generation is higher than any peak ever recorded. The new peak surpasses the 5,420.30MW achieved on August 18, 2020 by 39.20MW. Commenting, the acting Managing Director of TCN, Engr. Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz, lauded all the power sector players while he attributed the gradual but steady improvement in the quantum of power delivery to their collaborations. He also acknowledged the sustained effort of the Federal Government, through the Ministry of Power, in setting the right environment for seamless operations. Engr. Abdulaziz was hopeful that stakeholders in the sector would continue to work together towards ensuring the continued increase in the quantum of power available to consumers nationwide. He noted that TCN is committed to working with the generation and distribution companies to ensure sustained improvement in the sector for the benefit of the nation.