The spiritual leader and Chairman Ulam’u Council of Ja’ma’atu Izalatil Bid’ a Wa’ikatis Sunnah (JIBWIS), Sheik Sani Yahaya Jingir, alleges that the on-going EndSARS protest is a calculated plan to destroy President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration and the Northern part of the country. “It is very glaring that the EndSARS protest is a plan to disorganise Buhari’s government and destroy the entire north. I said this because even when the protesters demanded that SARS be disbanded, the government did that but they (protesters) continue with the protest, and some even called for the president’s resignation. This tells you that something bad is hidden in the movement, ” Sheik Jingir said. The cleric made the allegation on Friday during Juma’at Prayer held at the Yantaya Mosque, Jos, the Plateau State Capital. “We are not in support of the movement EndSARS protest because there is no sincerity in it. It is politically motivated. We call on people to desist from participating in the actions. What we need now is to pray for the progress of our nation and see the end of insecurity in various communities. Sheik Jingir further said the movement would only take the country backward when many parts of the country were suffering from security challenges especially the northern part of the country. He called on President Buhari to take quick action on the matter to ensure that the action of the protesters didn’t turn difficult to address. The spiritual leader and Chairman Ulam’u Council of Ja’ma’atu Izalatil Bid’ a Wa’ikatis Sunnah (JIBWIS), Sheik Sani Yahaya Jingir, alleges that the on-going EndSARS protest is a calculated plan to destroy President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration and the Northern part of the country. “It is very glaring that the EndSARS protest is a plan to disorganise Buhari’s government and destroy the entire north. I said this because even when the protesters demanded that SARS be disbanded, the government did that but they (protesters) continue with the protest, and some even called for the president’s resignation. This tells you that something bad is hidden in the movement, ” Sheik Jingir said. The cleric made the allegation on Friday during Juma’at Prayer held at the Yantaya Mosque, Jos, the Plateau State Capital. “We are not in support of the movement EndSARS protest because there is no sincerity in it. It is politically motivated. We call on people to desist from participating in the actions. What we need now is to pray for the progress of our nation and see the end of insecurity in various communities. Sheik Jingir further said the movement would only take the country backward when many parts of the country were suffering from security challenges especially the northern part of the country. He called on President Buhari to take quick action on the matter to ensure that the action of the protesters didn’t turn difficult to address.