No fewer than 90 Edo State councillors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Tuesday, stormed the party’s national secretariat in Abuja, asking President Muhammadu Buhari and the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led caretaker committee to prevail on Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki to pay their salaries and other entitlements. Speaking with newsmen after submitting a protest letter, the group, led by Hon. Enwinghare K. Osabuohie said the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state was intolerant towards the opposition. The letter reads in part: “Today, the world should know that as elected councillors numbering over 90, we have not been paid our salaries since May 2020. “Salaries and wages of the legislature are not a gift from the executive arm of government. “All rights and privileges and other entitlements have been stopped on the directive of the governor because of our democratic choice and right. “Our only offence is that we refused to decamp with the governor to the PDP even though in our assessment of his performance, we found no moral justification on which we should abandon the party that provided us with a platform to get elected. “Across the state, there have been illegal suspension of elected and appointed government officials in 16 out of the 18 local government areas. “Currently, in Edo State, the entire legislative arm of government is completely dysfunctional,” they said. Governor Obaseki had previously while responding through his spokesman, Crusoe Osagie, denied owing salaries and emoluments of the councillors. “So, the claims being made by some people over owed salaries are baseless. “The allegation that these persons are owed over political differences is even more ridiculous. “The allegations are false and should be disregarded,” he said. No fewer than 90 Edo State councillors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Tuesday, stormed the party’s national secretariat in Abuja, asking President Muhammadu Buhari and the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led caretaker committee to prevail on Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki to pay their salaries and other entitlements. Speaking with newsmen after submitting a protest letter, the group, led by Hon. Enwinghare K. Osabuohie said the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state was intolerant towards the opposition. The letter reads in part: “Today, the world should know that as elected councillors numbering over 90, we have not been paid our salaries since May 2020. “Salaries and wages of the legislature are not a gift from the executive arm of government. “All rights and privileges and other entitlements have been stopped on the directive of the governor because of our democratic choice and right. “Our only offence is that we refused to decamp with the governor to the PDP even though in our assessment of his performance, we found no moral justification on which we should abandon the party that provided us with a platform to get elected. “Across the state, there have been illegal suspension of elected and appointed government officials in 16 out of the 18 local government areas. “Currently, in Edo State, the entire legislative arm of government is completely dysfunctional,” they said. Governor Obaseki had previously while responding through his spokesman, Crusoe Osagie, denied owing salaries and emoluments of the councillors. “So, the claims being made by some people over owed salaries are baseless. “The allegation that these persons are owed over political differences is even more ridiculous. “The allegations are false and should be disregarded,” he said.