Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the just-concluded governorship election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu on Monday gave reasons on why he will not file a suit at the governorship election petition tribunal. Ize-Iyamu was defeated at the September 19 governorship election in Edo State by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Governor Godwin Obaseki. He, however, said he will continue with his pre-election cases already in court. Ize-lyamu in a statement made available to journalists in Benin, said the malpractices could easily form the basis to challenge the election results, but decided not to commence election petition to avoid further tension in the state. “We are mindful that the leadership of our great party, and many well-placed individuals have made pronouncements endorsing the process, which we have chosen to respect. “We had filed two pre-election cases against the PDP and its flag-bearer challenging their eligibility to contest the election, we will pursue the cases just as our opponents have considered it their prerogative to also continue with their pre-election cases against us. “The outcome of the pending cases has a direct effect on the election,” he said. Responding, the Edo State PDP publicity secretary, Chris Nehikhare, said the PDP and its candidate would still defeat the APC candidate in court. “While we hold that Ize-Iyamu has the right to approach the courts for whatever reason, it is trite for him to allude to the cases the PDP filed against him as the reason for his actions. “This attempt to justify a legal action against the PDP and governor Obaseki is disingenuous and destined to fail,” he said. Meanwhile, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of INEC in charge of Akwa Ibom State, Mike Igini, has instituted a N10bn libel suit against the factional chairman of the APC in Edo State, David Imuse and the chairman, State APC Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki. He said the suit became necessary following the failure of the duo to comply with his protest letter dated August 31, 2020 demanding for the retraction of the said publications.  Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the just-concluded governorship election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu on Monday gave reasons on why he will not file a suit at the governorship election petition tribunal. Ize-Iyamu was defeated at the September 19 governorship election in Edo State by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Governor Godwin Obaseki. He, however, said he will continue with his pre-election cases already in court. Ize-lyamu in a statement made available to journalists in Benin, said the malpractices could easily form the basis to challenge the election results, but decided not to commence election petition to avoid further tension in the state. “We are mindful that the leadership of our great party, and many well-placed individuals have made pronouncements endorsing the process, which we have chosen to respect. “We had filed two pre-election cases against the PDP and its flag-bearer challenging their eligibility to contest the election, we will pursue the cases just as our opponents have considered it their prerogative to also continue with their pre-election cases against us. “The outcome of the pending cases has a direct effect on the election,” he said. Responding, the Edo State PDP publicity secretary, Chris Nehikhare, said the PDP and its candidate would still defeat the APC candidate in court. “While we hold that Ize-Iyamu has the right to approach the courts for whatever reason, it is trite for him to allude to the cases the PDP filed against him as the reason for his actions. “This attempt to justify a legal action against the PDP and governor Obaseki is disingenuous and destined to fail,” he said. Meanwhile, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of INEC in charge of Akwa Ibom State, Mike Igini, has instituted a N10bn libel suit against the factional chairman of the APC in Edo State, David Imuse and the chairman, State APC Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki. He said the suit became necessary following the failure of the duo to comply with his protest letter dated August 31, 2020 demanding for the retraction of the said publications. 