He made the call while hosting a delegation from the Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Allocation Commission (RMFAC), at the Government House. While describing the current sharing formula between the three tiers of government in the country as obsolete, the Governor pointed out that both the states and local governments are not getting appropriate share of the revenue mostly because the data used in allocating revenue are also obsolete. Governor Sule pointed out that no local government area in Nasarawa State can be able to pay salaries of workers without support from the state government mostly because the data used in allocating revenue to the councils are not correct. “Nasarawa State should be able to generate enough revenue on our own, to sustain herself and then what will come from the federal will be to supplement the effort of what the state is doing,” he said. In his remarks, leader of the RMFAC delegation, Patrick Mgbebu, said the team were in the North Central to carry out advocacy and sensitization on data generation and management, for the review of the revenue allocation indices for states and local governments. Mgbebu, who is the Federal Commissioner representing Ebonyi State, said only a transparent exercise can ensure justice, equity and fairness to all parties. He made the call while hosting a delegation from the Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Allocation Commission (RMFAC), at the Government House. While describing the current sharing formula between the three tiers of government in the country as obsolete, the Governor pointed out that both the states and local governments are not getting appropriate share of the revenue mostly because the data used in allocating revenue are also obsolete. Governor Sule pointed out that no local government area in Nasarawa State can be able to pay salaries of workers without support from the state government mostly because the data used in allocating revenue to the councils are not correct. “Nasarawa State should be able to generate enough revenue on our own, to sustain herself and then what will come from the federal will be to supplement the effort of what the state is doing,” he said. In his remarks, leader of the RMFAC delegation, Patrick Mgbebu, said the team were in the North Central to carry out advocacy and sensitization on data generation and management, for the review of the revenue allocation indices for states and local governments. Mgbebu, who is the Federal Commissioner representing Ebonyi State, said only a transparent exercise can ensure justice, equity and fairness to all parties.