The national president of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents ANLCA, Hon. Iju Tony Nwabunike, has advised the Federal Government to harness the various supply chains so as to create over 50,000 jobs annually. Nwabunike said the seaports, airports and land border stations are direct chains linking warehouses and markets. The president in a message to shippers, customs brokerage agents, freight forwarders and supply chain stakeholders to mark Nigeria’s 60th Independence anniversary said He said the freight forwarders only have contributed substantially to the over N4 trillion revenue generated by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and supporting the Nigeria Customs Service in sustaining its annual N1trn revenue collection. While observing that ANLCA at 66, having been established in 1954 has a similar trajectory with Nigeria, which is 60, he said it should rely on past glory without commensurate maturity. “As we join in celebrating our great country Nigeria at 60, it has become imperative for us to reflect on the many untapped potentials we have as a country, as professionals and as business men.”  The national president of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents ANLCA, Hon. Iju Tony Nwabunike, has advised the Federal Government to harness the various supply chains so as to create over 50,000 jobs annually. Nwabunike said the seaports, airports and land border stations are direct chains linking warehouses and markets. The president in a message to shippers, customs brokerage agents, freight forwarders and supply chain stakeholders to mark Nigeria’s 60th Independence anniversary said He said the freight forwarders only have contributed substantially to the over N4 trillion revenue generated by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and supporting the Nigeria Customs Service in sustaining its annual N1trn revenue collection. While observing that ANLCA at 66, having been established in 1954 has a similar trajectory with Nigeria, which is 60, he said it should rely on past glory without commensurate maturity. “As we join in celebrating our great country Nigeria at 60, it has become imperative for us to reflect on the many untapped potentials we have as a country, as professionals and as business men.” 