The president of Nigerians Voters Assembly (VOTAS), Comrade Mashood Erubami, has said that the postponement of the 15 by-elections in 11 states by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over the #EndSARS protests is a welcome development. According to him, the security of lives and properties of the citizens should be a priority at all times. Erubami said the elections could not be held amidst the #EndSARS protests, as that would jeopardise security of INEC officials and the electorate. He, however, urged the commission to fashion out ways of ensuring that the new date was within the constitutional limit of conducting such elections. The commission had on Thursday postponed the by-elections in six senatorial districts and nine state constituencies. The affected districts and constituencies are Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Bayelsa West Senatorial District; Nganzai State Constituency, Borno State; Bayo State Constituency, Borno State; Cross River North Senatorial District; and Obudu State Constituency, Cross River State. Others are Imo North Senatorial District; Lagos East Senatorial District; Kosofe II State Constituency, Lagos State; Plateau South Senatorial District; Bakura State Constituency, Zamfara State; Ibaji State Constituency, Kogi State; Isi-Uzo State Constituency, Enugu State and Bakori State Constituency, Katsina State.  The president of Nigerians Voters Assembly (VOTAS), Comrade Mashood Erubami, has said that the postponement of the 15 by-elections in 11 states by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over the #EndSARS protests is a welcome development. According to him, the security of lives and properties of the citizens should be a priority at all times. Erubami said the elections could not be held amidst the #EndSARS protests, as that would jeopardise security of INEC officials and the electorate. He, however, urged the commission to fashion out ways of ensuring that the new date was within the constitutional limit of conducting such elections. The commission had on Thursday postponed the by-elections in six senatorial districts and nine state constituencies. The affected districts and constituencies are Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Bayelsa West Senatorial District; Nganzai State Constituency, Borno State; Bayo State Constituency, Borno State; Cross River North Senatorial District; and Obudu State Constituency, Cross River State. Others are Imo North Senatorial District; Lagos East Senatorial District; Kosofe II State Constituency, Lagos State; Plateau South Senatorial District; Bakura State Constituency, Zamfara State; Ibaji State Constituency, Kogi State; Isi-Uzo State Constituency, Enugu State and Bakori State Constituency, Katsina State. 