The Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) has threatened to sanction shipping companies that fail to affix the Nigerian Export Proceed (NXP) number on all export cargoes. The Executive Secretary/CEO of NSC, Mr. Hassan Bello, said the Council and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has carried out three sensitization meetings in Lagos and Port Harcourt to educate shipping companies and exporters on the need to implement a recent directive on the NXP. Bello disclosed that the NSC would continue to work with other agencies of government to ensure full compliance so that exports without the NXP are discontinued. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, said while auditing the activities of shipping companies, it was discovered that several of them failed to affix NXP to cargoes, noting that sanctions will follow soon. “We are going to set up an auto system, where if someone wants to send cargo, copies of the NXP form will be sent directly to you. “So that if you don’t have it on line on your system that the NXP has been registered, you turn back that cargo. “You cannot accept any number and use it as a basis for shipping. “We are not going to allow that. That is not acceptable. “If you don’t see NXP Forms, that cargo should be turned back”. The shipping firms’ heads were at the meeting. Managing Director, MSC Nigeria Ltd, Andrew Lynch, said his company receives NXP forms on all major agro commodities like cashew, cocoa and sesame, but not for commodities like charcoal and timber. Lynch said there is a challenge of their inability to verify the authenticity of an NXP Form. Managing Director, Grimaldi Nigeria Ltd, Ascanio Russo, said his company is also unable to access the CBN’s online portal. Responding, Emefiele said a circular outlining this procedure would be sent out to shipping lines and relevant agencies. The Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) has threatened to sanction shipping companies that fail to affix the Nigerian Export Proceed (NXP) number on all export cargoes. The Executive Secretary/CEO of NSC, Mr. Hassan Bello, said the Council and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has carried out three sensitization meetings in Lagos and Port Harcourt to educate shipping companies and exporters on the need to implement a recent directive on the NXP. Bello disclosed that the NSC would continue to work with other agencies of government to ensure full compliance so that exports without the NXP are discontinued. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, said while auditing the activities of shipping companies, it was discovered that several of them failed to affix NXP to cargoes, noting that sanctions will follow soon. “We are going to set up an auto system, where if someone wants to send cargo, copies of the NXP form will be sent directly to you. “So that if you don’t have it on line on your system that the NXP has been registered, you turn back that cargo. “You cannot accept any number and use it as a basis for shipping. “We are not going to allow that. That is not acceptable. “If you don’t see NXP Forms, that cargo should be turned back”. The shipping firms’ heads were at the meeting. Managing Director, MSC Nigeria Ltd, Andrew Lynch, said his company receives NXP forms on all major agro commodities like cashew, cocoa and sesame, but not for commodities like charcoal and timber. Lynch said there is a challenge of their inability to verify the authenticity of an NXP Form. Managing Director, Grimaldi Nigeria Ltd, Ascanio Russo, said his company is also unable to access the CBN’s online portal. Responding, Emefiele said a circular outlining this procedure would be sent out to shipping lines and relevant agencies.