The Peugeot 3008 Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) unveils its strength and character. Featuring a sleek design, this distinct SUV combines robustness with elegance. Explore a unique technological world on board the 3008 SUV, while enjoying an enhanced driving experience. The new Peugeot 3008 SUV has won more than 30 international awards since its launch, the Peugeot 3008 SUV. They include the prestigious European Car of the Year Award. The SUV 3008 has seduced many juries around the world thanks to its dynamic qualities, stylish exterior, equipment, interior design and of course its innovative Peugeot i-Cockpit. PAN Ltd uplifted with $150m funding What is best about this vehicle is that it is available in Nigeria and Peugeot Automobile Nigeria (PAN) Limited, its assembly plant in Kaduna, offers original spare parts. A new investor, NESBITT Investment Nigeria Limited, this month took over PAN Limited with assurance that it will inject $150 million into the company within three years to uplift it. The fund will be invested in retooling and upgrading the assembly line, the support infrastructure and as working capital. Speaking during the taking over ceremony at the PAN assembly in Kaduna recently, the Chairman, Ahmed Wadada Aliyu, assured that, the company would soon be rolling out cheap and affordable brand new vehicles for Nigerians. Aliyu lamented that in 2019 alone, Nigerians imported about 400,000 used cars and 68,000 brand new vehicles. He however said PAN Ltd would introduce new brands to re-launch brand affordability, such that Nigerians will have access to new vehicles. Why pick the Peugeot 3008 SUV? Now that you’ve read this, here are reasons you would love the trendy Peugeot 3008 SUV. Inspired Styling Fall in love with the powerful front of the SUV Peugeot 3008, with its chequered chrome radiator grille and full LED headlights adding to the sleek, feline look. Discover the car’s fluid and dynamic lines, further emphasised by elegant chrome wing inserts. Featuring a unique and sharp design, the SUV Peugeot 3008 is even more striking thanks to its Black Diamond roof and gloss black rear panel incorporating LED day running lights, reminiscent of three claw marks. An Enhanced Experience Drivers have never before had such a beautiful space for all their adventures. With its spectacular Peugeot i-Cockpit, the SUV Peugeot 3008 invites you to discover a 100% digital universe. The 8 inch capacitive touch screen, configurable and customisable head-up digital display, compact steering wheel featuring integrated controls and electronic automatic transmission control system are the perfect combination to enhance your driving experience. Innovative Technology We should explore the world but also respect it using environmentally-efficient technologies. The lighter chassis, PureTech and BlueHD engines and EAT6 automatic gearbox mean the SUV Peugeot 3008 is among the most efficient SUVs in its class. Original Spare Parts, Standard Replacements Peugeot said it offers spare parts perfectly suited to your vehicle. It is the most reliable, safe and cost-effective solution available for your maintenance and repair needs. Peugeot original parts are designed to fully meet the technical requirements of your Peugeot. They are designed to fit into a complex technical system and allow you to drive with complete peace of mind. You can also get a standard replacement part that has been refurbished according to stringent reconditioning procedures. The standard replacement scheme is governed by a legal framework requiring the registration of replaced parts. Financing Plans PAN on its website said it also offers some financing plans. PAN Vehicle Aquisition Finance Scheme Under this scheme, PAN said it enables you to make a low equity contribution of between 10 to 20 per cent with a fixed monthly repayment plan for any tenor of between 12 to 48 months. This is in partnership with Enterprise and Jaiz banks in line with its determination to take its rightful place in the Nigerian automotive market. The Jaiz/PAN Auto Finance This one is a special finance scheme that enables Jaiz Bank customers and non-customers acquire various ranges of Peugeot vehicles under a flexible payment plan. Customers of the bank will have to own a salary domiciliation account with 10 per cent commitment deposit while non-customers will issue post-dated cheques with 20% commitment deposit. This process has zero processing and management fees, along with three years warranty or 100,000 kilometres (whichever comes first). The Peugeot 3008 Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) unveils its strength and character. Featuring a sleek design, this distinct SUV combines robustness with elegance. Explore a unique technological world on board the 3008 SUV, while enjoying an enhanced driving experience. The new Peugeot 3008 SUV has won more than 30 international awards since its launch, the Peugeot 3008 SUV. They include the prestigious European Car of the Year Award. The SUV 3008 has seduced many juries around the world thanks to its dynamic qualities, stylish exterior, equipment, interior design and of course its innovative Peugeot i-Cockpit. PAN Ltd uplifted with $150m funding What is best about this vehicle is that it is available in Nigeria and Peugeot Automobile Nigeria (PAN) Limited, its assembly plant in Kaduna, offers original spare parts. A new investor, NESBITT Investment Nigeria Limited, this month took over PAN Limited with assurance that it will inject $150 million into the company within three years to uplift it. The fund will be invested in retooling and upgrading the assembly line, the support infrastructure and as working capital. Speaking during the taking over ceremony at the PAN assembly in Kaduna recently, the Chairman, Ahmed Wadada Aliyu, assured that, the company would soon be rolling out cheap and affordable brand new vehicles for Nigerians. Aliyu lamented that in 2019 alone, Nigerians imported about 400,000 used cars and 68,000 brand new vehicles. He however said PAN Ltd would introduce new brands to re-launch brand affordability, such that Nigerians will have access to new vehicles. Why pick the Peugeot 3008 SUV? Now that you’ve read this, here are reasons you would love the trendy Peugeot 3008 SUV. Inspired Styling Fall in love with the powerful front of the SUV Peugeot 3008, with its chequered chrome radiator grille and full LED headlights adding to the sleek, feline look. Discover the car’s fluid and dynamic lines, further emphasised by elegant chrome wing inserts. Featuring a unique and sharp design, the SUV Peugeot 3008 is even more striking thanks to its Black Diamond roof and gloss black rear panel incorporating LED day running lights, reminiscent of three claw marks. An Enhanced Experience Drivers have never before had such a beautiful space for all their adventures. With its spectacular Peugeot i-Cockpit, the SUV Peugeot 3008 invites you to discover a 100% digital universe. The 8 inch capacitive touch screen, configurable and customisable head-up digital display, compact steering wheel featuring integrated controls and electronic automatic transmission control system are the perfect combination to enhance your driving experience. Innovative Technology We should explore the world but also respect it using environmentally-efficient technologies. The lighter chassis, PureTech and BlueHD engines and EAT6 automatic gearbox mean the SUV Peugeot 3008 is among the most efficient SUVs in its class. Original Spare Parts, Standard Replacements Peugeot said it offers spare parts perfectly suited to your vehicle. It is the most reliable, safe and cost-effective solution available for your maintenance and repair needs. Peugeot original parts are designed to fully meet the technical requirements of your Peugeot. They are designed to fit into a complex technical system and allow you to drive with complete peace of mind. You can also get a standard replacement part that has been refurbished according to stringent reconditioning procedures. The standard replacement scheme is governed by a legal framework requiring the registration of replaced parts. Financing Plans PAN on its website said it also offers some financing plans. PAN Vehicle Aquisition Finance Scheme Under this scheme, PAN said it enables you to make a low equity contribution of between 10 to 20 per cent with a fixed monthly repayment plan for any tenor of between 12 to 48 months. This is in partnership with Enterprise and Jaiz banks in line with its determination to take its rightful place in the Nigerian automotive market. The Jaiz/PAN Auto Finance This one is a special finance scheme that enables Jaiz Bank customers and non-customers acquire various ranges of Peugeot vehicles under a flexible payment plan. Customers of the bank will have to own a salary domiciliation account with 10 per cent commitment deposit while non-customers will issue post-dated cheques with 20% commitment deposit. This process has zero processing and management fees, along with three years warranty or 100,000 kilometres (whichever comes first).