The Chairman, Senate Committee on Anti-Corruption and Financial Crimes, Senator Suleiman Abdu Kwari, has lifted 50 widows out of poverty in Kaduna State by engaging them in skills acquisition training. The women were trained on soap making, and thereafter given start-up capital and work tools. Speaking after the graduation of 50 beneficiaries in Zaria, the Senator representing Kaduna North Senatorial District said he was elated and desirous of boosting his humanitarian services. Senator Kwari, said he would not rest on his oars until vulnerable people are empowered, adding that his Foundation was working out fresh schemes of reaching out and giving back to society. “As I’ve said repeatedly, I am making philanthropy my major preoccupation. We should all support the downtrodden and the vulnerable in charitable causes, especially now that the Nigerian economy needs our collective support. “My Foundation will soon announce major schemes for both men, youth and women in the State, while focusing on education, health, skill acquisition and empowerment,” he added. The lawmaker commended the Altitude Global Link Limited for the planning, and the National Research Institute for Chemical Technology, Zaria for the training of the widows on skills acquisition. Maryam Abdullahi, 48, a beneficiary, was grateful on behalf of the others. She said the skills and the start-up capital will help in alleviating their suffering, and elevate their economic status.  The Chairman, Senate Committee on Anti-Corruption and Financial Crimes, Senator Suleiman Abdu Kwari, has lifted 50 widows out of poverty in Kaduna State by engaging them in skills acquisition training. The women were trained on soap making, and thereafter given start-up capital and work tools. Speaking after the graduation of 50 beneficiaries in Zaria, the Senator representing Kaduna North Senatorial District said he was elated and desirous of boosting his humanitarian services. Senator Kwari, said he would not rest on his oars until vulnerable people are empowered, adding that his Foundation was working out fresh schemes of reaching out and giving back to society. “As I’ve said repeatedly, I am making philanthropy my major preoccupation. We should all support the downtrodden and the vulnerable in charitable causes, especially now that the Nigerian economy needs our collective support. “My Foundation will soon announce major schemes for both men, youth and women in the State, while focusing on education, health, skill acquisition and empowerment,” he added. The lawmaker commended the Altitude Global Link Limited for the planning, and the National Research Institute for Chemical Technology, Zaria for the training of the widows on skills acquisition. Maryam Abdullahi, 48, a beneficiary, was grateful on behalf of the others. She said the skills and the start-up capital will help in alleviating their suffering, and elevate their economic status. 