The Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group, Taiwo Afolabi, on Monday reiterated the importance of constant dredging of Elegbeta water channel in Lagos, to business activities at the nation’s oldest Seaports, Apapa and Tin-Can Island Seaports. Dr. Afolabi noted that the move impact positively on vessels turn-around time as more containers would be evacuated by barges to nearby inland container terminals He made this request while conducting officials of the Federal Ministry of Transportation round its new container terminal at Ijora, Lagos State. Dr. Afolabi who was represented by Capt. Ibraheem Olugbade, the Executive Director, SIFAX Off Dock, also appealed for government’s support in achieving the vision of the terminal, especially the dredging of the waterways so barges could access the terminal. “SIFAX Container Terminal located at Ijora, Lagos was established to address the challenge of traffic congestion around the Lagos ports. Its vantage position, which is on the fringes of the port environment, will allow it to receive consignments from both Apapa and Tin Can Island ports through barges, without the complications of traffic congestion that has adversely affected businesses and port activities,” he added. Leader of the delegation and Director, Maritime Services, in the ministry, Auwalu Suleiman, said: “We are here at the instance of the Minister of Transportation to inspect the terminal and make sure that it conforms to all the relevant requirements. “It is also our intention to recommend to the government that this terminal should be adopted as a model for all future off-docks that would be sited in Nigeria.”  The Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group, Taiwo Afolabi, on Monday reiterated the importance of constant dredging of Elegbeta water channel in Lagos, to business activities at the nation’s oldest Seaports, Apapa and Tin-Can Island Seaports. Dr. Afolabi noted that the move impact positively on vessels turn-around time as more containers would be evacuated by barges to nearby inland container terminals He made this request while conducting officials of the Federal Ministry of Transportation round its new container terminal at Ijora, Lagos State. Dr. Afolabi who was represented by Capt. Ibraheem Olugbade, the Executive Director, SIFAX Off Dock, also appealed for government’s support in achieving the vision of the terminal, especially the dredging of the waterways so barges could access the terminal. “SIFAX Container Terminal located at Ijora, Lagos was established to address the challenge of traffic congestion around the Lagos ports. Its vantage position, which is on the fringes of the port environment, will allow it to receive consignments from both Apapa and Tin Can Island ports through barges, without the complications of traffic congestion that has adversely affected businesses and port activities,” he added. Leader of the delegation and Director, Maritime Services, in the ministry, Auwalu Suleiman, said: “We are here at the instance of the Minister of Transportation to inspect the terminal and make sure that it conforms to all the relevant requirements. “It is also our intention to recommend to the government that this terminal should be adopted as a model for all future off-docks that would be sited in Nigeria.” 