Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has lauded its customers while appreciating them for their loyalty. A statement by the General Manager, Corporate Communications, Oyebode Fadipe, said the Managing Director/CEO of AEDC, Dr. Ernest Mupwaya, said the Customer Week which began on Monday was the best time to give-back to the customers. Dr. Mupwaya, who is expected to flag off the activities lined up for the week at the head office of the company in Abuja on Monday, in a letter to staff, said: “This is an auspicious period to demonstrate our appreciation to our esteemed customers and recognise the importance of customer service excellence within an organisation.” He said the week, with the theme ‘Dream Team’, highlighted the significance of teamwork and collaboration in providing outstanding service to all customers as demonstrated during the COVID -19 lockdown period. The firm will visit an orphanage home in Abuja to donate food items; it will also be at the Human Rights Radio station airing the reality programme, Brekete, and will visit Daily Trust newspaper in recognition of the vital role of the media in the development of the power sector. “The customer-centric disposition of AEDC has been widely acknowledged by stakeholders including some customer advocacy groups,” it added.  Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has lauded its customers while appreciating them for their loyalty. A statement by the General Manager, Corporate Communications, Oyebode Fadipe, said the Managing Director/CEO of AEDC, Dr. Ernest Mupwaya, said the Customer Week which began on Monday was the best time to give-back to the customers. Dr. Mupwaya, who is expected to flag off the activities lined up for the week at the head office of the company in Abuja on Monday, in a letter to staff, said: “This is an auspicious period to demonstrate our appreciation to our esteemed customers and recognise the importance of customer service excellence within an organisation.” He said the week, with the theme ‘Dream Team’, highlighted the significance of teamwork and collaboration in providing outstanding service to all customers as demonstrated during the COVID -19 lockdown period. The firm will visit an orphanage home in Abuja to donate food items; it will also be at the Human Rights Radio station airing the reality programme, Brekete, and will visit Daily Trust newspaper in recognition of the vital role of the media in the development of the power sector. “The customer-centric disposition of AEDC has been widely acknowledged by stakeholders including some customer advocacy groups,” it added. 