Controversy has trailed the N10 billion intervention fund for the transportation sector following the emergence of various unions including those not registered, findings by Daily Trust shown. The development has delayed the disbursement of the fund, according to sources close to our correspondent. They hinted that following this, applicants may be interviewed before accessing the fund. Interstate transport operators were not operating for four months following the COVID-19 lockdown which was aimed at containing the spread of the virus. Operators said they lost over N100bn during the lockdown. The Federal Government however approved N10bn for the operators as disclosed by the Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki but that has not been accessed. “The last time we met Senator Saraki, we were told many unions are coming up to claim the palliatives and we are confused about the whole thing. “Again, we were told they would be interviewing people. We are confused,” said a source who spoke with Daily Trust in confidence. Meanwhile, Senator Saraki, has stated that only duly registered road transport unions will be considered under the N10bn Federal Government intervention fund for road transport workers and operators. Sen. Saraki said this when the National President, National Commercial Tricycle and Motorcycle Owners and Riders Association (NACTOMORAS), Alhaji Muhammed Sani Hassan, led its members on a courtesy call in her office in Abuja. She also tasked the executive council to ensure that their members are duly registered as only properly registered road transporters would be considered for the palliative. Hassan implored the Minister to give Keke and Okada operators/owners special consideration in the disbursement of the intervention fund. Controversy has trailed the N10 billion intervention fund for the transportation sector following the emergence of various unions including those not registered, findings by Daily Trust shown. The development has delayed the disbursement of the fund, according to sources close to our correspondent. They hinted that following this, applicants may be interviewed before accessing the fund. Interstate transport operators were not operating for four months following the COVID-19 lockdown which was aimed at containing the spread of the virus. Operators said they lost over N100bn during the lockdown. The Federal Government however approved N10bn for the operators as disclosed by the Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki but that has not been accessed. “The last time we met Senator Saraki, we were told many unions are coming up to claim the palliatives and we are confused about the whole thing. “Again, we were told they would be interviewing people. We are confused,” said a source who spoke with Daily Trust in confidence. Meanwhile, Senator Saraki, has stated that only duly registered road transport unions will be considered under the N10bn Federal Government intervention fund for road transport workers and operators. Sen. Saraki said this when the National President, National Commercial Tricycle and Motorcycle Owners and Riders Association (NACTOMORAS), Alhaji Muhammed Sani Hassan, led its members on a courtesy call in her office in Abuja. She also tasked the executive council to ensure that their members are duly registered as only properly registered road transporters would be considered for the palliative. Hassan implored the Minister to give Keke and Okada operators/owners special consideration in the disbursement of the intervention fund.