Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State on Tuesday, said despite forgiving the former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, he must retract the falsehood peddled against him. Ortom who made the remark when he played host to members of the NUJ correspondents’ chapel in Makurdi, confirmed that Oshiomhole was currently negotiating terms of the settlement with him. “As long as he is able to retract it, we will put that behind us and move forward,” he said. Ortom had dragged the former APC chairman to court over his comments against him in an allegedly APC sponsored world press conference held on July 27, 2018, wherein Oshiomhole accused him of having a hand in the death of two Catholic priests and other parishioners at Mbalom community, Gwer East local government on the grounds that one of the priests had preached a ‘very critical sermon’ against him (the governor). While the case lasted in court, Oshiomhole in the early days of the suit had filed six preliminary objections which the court resolved all in Ortom’s favour. But on resumption of the case for definite hearing two weeks ago, counsel to the governor, Samuel Irabor, submitted that he was ready to call his witnesses, but that Oshiomhole’s counsel had informed him earlier that they have considered putting up a retraction of the publication and that it would be ready within a week. Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State on Tuesday, said despite forgiving the former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, he must retract the falsehood peddled against him. Ortom who made the remark when he played host to members of the NUJ correspondents’ chapel in Makurdi, confirmed that Oshiomhole was currently negotiating terms of the settlement with him. “As long as he is able to retract it, we will put that behind us and move forward,” he said. Ortom had dragged the former APC chairman to court over his comments against him in an allegedly APC sponsored world press conference held on July 27, 2018, wherein Oshiomhole accused him of having a hand in the death of two Catholic priests and other parishioners at Mbalom community, Gwer East local government on the grounds that one of the priests had preached a ‘very critical sermon’ against him (the governor). While the case lasted in court, Oshiomhole in the early days of the suit had filed six preliminary objections which the court resolved all in Ortom’s favour. But on resumption of the case for definite hearing two weeks ago, counsel to the governor, Samuel Irabor, submitted that he was ready to call his witnesses, but that Oshiomhole’s counsel had informed him earlier that they have considered putting up a retraction of the publication and that it would be ready within a week.