The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in September’s governorship elections in Edo, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, on Monday said that he will not file a case at the governorship election petition tribunal but will continue with his pre-election cases already in court. He said there were several grounds he could challenge the election results but would not. APC leadership and other chieftains of the party have already congratulated the winner (Gov. Godwin Obaseki) of the poll. According to him, contrary to media reports, the election was neither free nor fair, as there were several incidents of violence, voter intimidation and falsification of results. Ize-lyamu in a statement made available to journalists in Benin City, said the malpractice could easily form the basis to challenge the election results, but however, decided not to file a petition to avoid further tension in the state. “We are mindful that the leadership of our great party, and many well-placed individuals have made pronouncements endorsing the process, which we have chosen to respect. He explained that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and its flag-bearer have continued to pursue its 13 pre-election suits in various courts against them. “We had filed two pre-election cases against the PDP and its flag-bearer challenging their eligibility to contest the election, we will pursue the cases just as our opponents have considered it their prerogative to also continue with their pre-election cases against us. The outcome of the pending cases have direct effect on the election,” he said. The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in September’s governorship elections in Edo, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, on Monday said that he will not file a case at the governorship election petition tribunal but will continue with his pre-election cases already in court. He said there were several grounds he could challenge the election results but would not. APC leadership and other chieftains of the party have already congratulated the winner (Gov. Godwin Obaseki) of the poll. According to him, contrary to media reports, the election was neither free nor fair, as there were several incidents of violence, voter intimidation and falsification of results. Ize-lyamu in a statement made available to journalists in Benin City, said the malpractice could easily form the basis to challenge the election results, but however, decided not to file a petition to avoid further tension in the state. “We are mindful that the leadership of our great party, and many well-placed individuals have made pronouncements endorsing the process, which we have chosen to respect. He explained that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and its flag-bearer have continued to pursue its 13 pre-election suits in various courts against them. “We had filed two pre-election cases against the PDP and its flag-bearer challenging their eligibility to contest the election, we will pursue the cases just as our opponents have considered it their prerogative to also continue with their pre-election cases against us. The outcome of the pending cases have direct effect on the election,” he said.