The Federal Government has constituted the governing board of the Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA), seven years after it was established in 2013. Inaugurating the board and the reconstituted management team of the agency on Wednesday, the Minister of State for Power, Mr Goddy Jedy-Agba, charged the nine-member board to be committed. The board is led by the Chairman, Engr. Suleiman Yahaya; members from the six geopolitical zones; a representative from the Federal Ministries of Power, and Finance; and the Managing Director, Engr. Peter Ewesor. The reconstituted management team includes three Executive Directors, and six General Managers, with the GM, Legal becoming the Company Secretary. “It is important to note that the appointment of the board is part-time for a period of three years, renewable for another three years. It is part-time and not full time, please take note of this,” Jedy-Agba said. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mr Christian Ohaa, said NEMSA enforces technical standards in the power sector as he charged the board to keep to the mandate. “In doing this, it is a statutory mandate to have a board in place for proper guidance in line with the policy direction of President Buhari’s government.” Engr. Yahaya said: “We will strive hard to make sure that the yearnings of this nation are provided: uninterrupted, safe, and reliable power supply within the short period of time in line with our mandate.”  The Federal Government has constituted the governing board of the Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA), seven years after it was established in 2013. Inaugurating the board and the reconstituted management team of the agency on Wednesday, the Minister of State for Power, Mr Goddy Jedy-Agba, charged the nine-member board to be committed. The board is led by the Chairman, Engr. Suleiman Yahaya; members from the six geopolitical zones; a representative from the Federal Ministries of Power, and Finance; and the Managing Director, Engr. Peter Ewesor. The reconstituted management team includes three Executive Directors, and six General Managers, with the GM, Legal becoming the Company Secretary. “It is important to note that the appointment of the board is part-time for a period of three years, renewable for another three years. It is part-time and not full time, please take note of this,” Jedy-Agba said. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mr Christian Ohaa, said NEMSA enforces technical standards in the power sector as he charged the board to keep to the mandate. “In doing this, it is a statutory mandate to have a board in place for proper guidance in line with the policy direction of President Buhari’s government.” Engr. Yahaya said: “We will strive hard to make sure that the yearnings of this nation are provided: uninterrupted, safe, and reliable power supply within the short period of time in line with our mandate.” 