Chairman of the caretaker committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State has raised an alarm that there is a hidden agenda behind the lingering anti-Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) protest across the country. Speaking in an interview with the BBC Hausa Service, Buni said there was urgent need for leaders at all levels to come together to bring an end to the protest before it got out hand. “Looking at the protest now, it is like something bad is hidden. Despite government’s actions on the protesters’ demands, they are still on the streets protesting. Government has to be very careful with them. “What else do the protesters want? The IG has taken immediate action. So, I think they should stop the protests and come to the table with government so that there will be solution,” he said. He said President Muhammadu Buhari took over at a time the country was facing enormous challenges, stressing that Nigeria cannot be fixed within five years. He called on leaders to come to their senses about the issue of protests like the ongoing, adding that without Nigeria as a country nobody can achieve his aim. It’s a vote of no confidence on Buhari — Ekiti PDP But the Ekiti State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said the protest was a vote of no confidence on the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari and his party. PDP, while reacting to the total lockdown of Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital on Monday said the president should either reconsider his continued stay as the president or review his style of governance. The State Publicity Secretary, Raphael Adeyanju, said the protest in the Ado Ekiti metropolis, which paralysed both social and economic activities, had caused a lot of discomfort to innocent residents of the state capital. “One thing that is clear is that, this protest is not limited to Ekiti State. It is a nationwide development, which has sent a clear message to discernible minds that the APC has outlived its usefulness. The protest is a vote of no confidence on the APC administration,” he said. He advised the president to urgently address the grievances of the protesting youths before things got out of control.  Chairman of the caretaker committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State has raised an alarm that there is a hidden agenda behind the lingering anti-Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) protest across the country. Speaking in an interview with the BBC Hausa Service, Buni said there was urgent need for leaders at all levels to come together to bring an end to the protest before it got out hand. “Looking at the protest now, it is like something bad is hidden. Despite government’s actions on the protesters’ demands, they are still on the streets protesting. Government has to be very careful with them. “What else do the protesters want? The IG has taken immediate action. So, I think they should stop the protests and come to the table with government so that there will be solution,” he said. He said President Muhammadu Buhari took over at a time the country was facing enormous challenges, stressing that Nigeria cannot be fixed within five years. He called on leaders to come to their senses about the issue of protests like the ongoing, adding that without Nigeria as a country nobody can achieve his aim. It’s a vote of no confidence on Buhari — Ekiti PDP But the Ekiti State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said the protest was a vote of no confidence on the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari and his party. PDP, while reacting to the total lockdown of Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital on Monday said the president should either reconsider his continued stay as the president or review his style of governance. The State Publicity Secretary, Raphael Adeyanju, said the protest in the Ado Ekiti metropolis, which paralysed both social and economic activities, had caused a lot of discomfort to innocent residents of the state capital. “One thing that is clear is that, this protest is not limited to Ekiti State. It is a nationwide development, which has sent a clear message to discernible minds that the APC has outlived its usefulness. The protest is a vote of no confidence on the APC administration,” he said. He advised the president to urgently address the grievances of the protesting youths before things got out of control. 