Jaiz Bank PLC, the premier non-interest bank in Nigeria has appointed three new directors to fill existing vacancies as well as furthering the bank’s succession plan. The appointments have been approved by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and forwarded to the Nigerian Stock Exchange. “The Board of Jaiz Bank Plc is pleased with the appointments and looks forward to working with the Directors.” The appointees include Mrs. Aisha Waziri Umar and Dr. Abdullateef Bello as Independent Non-Executive Directors, with effect from October 1, 2020, while Dr. Sirajo Salisu was appointed as an Executive Director effective January 1, 2021. Mrs. Umar is a legal practitioner & notary public with over 23 years’ experience across multiple sectors. She is the founder of Inara Foundation, a non-governmental organisation assisting victims of violence in the northeast of Nigeria. She is also an advocate and promoter of special education in Nigeria and the proprietor of the Centre for Children with Special Needs in Abuja. Mrs. Umar is a 1987 graduate of Law from the University of Buckingham, England, Masters of Laws Degree (University of London) and Post-Graduate Diploma in Global Business from Oxford University, Said Business School England. Dr. Bello received his M.Sc. and Ph.D. in Applied Statistics from the University of Oxford (U.K). He was the recipient of the prestigious Rhodes scholarship, which enabled him to complete his studies at Oxford. Bello who was a lecturer at the Federal University of Technology, Akure, in the late ’80s, progressed to join the young professional programme of the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) in 1994 and worked for 20 years in the Economic Research and Policy Department where he eventually retired as principal statistician. Dr. Sirajo on his part is a Certified Risk Manager (CRM), Fellow Institute of Credit Administration (FICA) and Honorary Senior Member Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN). He read Economics from Bayero University, Kano in 1991, Msc Monetary Economics (University of Port Harcourt) and Ph.D. Agricultural Economics from Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Bauchi. Sirajo also obtained his second Master’s Degree in Islamic Banking and Finance at BUK, and has 28 years of practical banking experience with 11 years at the top management level. He joined Jaiz in 2016 and grew to become the Chief Risk Officer in 2018, until this appointment.  Jaiz Bank PLC, the premier non-interest bank in Nigeria has appointed three new directors to fill existing vacancies as well as furthering the bank’s succession plan. The appointments have been approved by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and forwarded to the Nigerian Stock Exchange. “The Board of Jaiz Bank Plc is pleased with the appointments and looks forward to working with the Directors.” The appointees include Mrs. Aisha Waziri Umar and Dr. Abdullateef Bello as Independent Non-Executive Directors, with effect from October 1, 2020, while Dr. Sirajo Salisu was appointed as an Executive Director effective January 1, 2021. Mrs. Umar is a legal practitioner & notary public with over 23 years’ experience across multiple sectors. She is the founder of Inara Foundation, a non-governmental organisation assisting victims of violence in the northeast of Nigeria. She is also an advocate and promoter of special education in Nigeria and the proprietor of the Centre for Children with Special Needs in Abuja. Mrs. Umar is a 1987 graduate of Law from the University of Buckingham, England, Masters of Laws Degree (University of London) and Post-Graduate Diploma in Global Business from Oxford University, Said Business School England. Dr. Bello received his M.Sc. and Ph.D. in Applied Statistics from the University of Oxford (U.K). He was the recipient of the prestigious Rhodes scholarship, which enabled him to complete his studies at Oxford. Bello who was a lecturer at the Federal University of Technology, Akure, in the late ’80s, progressed to join the young professional programme of the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) in 1994 and worked for 20 years in the Economic Research and Policy Department where he eventually retired as principal statistician. Dr. Sirajo on his part is a Certified Risk Manager (CRM), Fellow Institute of Credit Administration (FICA) and Honorary Senior Member Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN). He read Economics from Bayero University, Kano in 1991, Msc Monetary Economics (University of Port Harcourt) and Ph.D. Agricultural Economics from Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Bauchi. Sirajo also obtained his second Master’s Degree in Islamic Banking and Finance at BUK, and has 28 years of practical banking experience with 11 years at the top management level. He joined Jaiz in 2016 and grew to become the Chief Risk Officer in 2018, until this appointment. 