The FCT Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello has banned all street demonstrations in the Federal Capital Territory, accusing the #EndSARS protesters of violating COVID-19 safety guidelines put in place to safeguard the lives of all citizens. The minister who chaired the FCT Security Committee meeting which held on Tuesday October 13, 2020, to review the security situation in the territory with a view to addressing identified challenges, said “These violations endanger the lives of not just the demonstrators, but also other citizens going about their legitimate concerns. “For the avoidance of doubt, the COVID-19 guidelines regulating public gatherings recommend physical distancing, temperature checks, the use of facial coverings, amongst others. Clearly all these guidelines were flouted by the protesters.” According to a statement by Mr. Anthony Ogunleye, the Chief Press Secretary to the FCT minister, the committee therefore directed that due to the dangers posed by COVID-19, all street demonstrations, protests and processions would not be allowed anywhere within the FCT. The meeting which was chaired by the FCT minister also had in attendance, the Permanent Secretary, FCTA, Mr Olusade Adesola, heads of the various security agencies and military formations in the FCT, senior members of staff of the FCTA, representatives of religious and traditional institutions as well as area council chairmen. The #EndSARS protests, which continued despite the disbanding of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) by the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu, caused gridlock in the city, especially in and around Berger Roundabout where the protesters were camped for days. Hoodlums carrying cutlasses and cudgels on Wednesday attacked the protesters, injuring many and vandalizing at least five cars. The FCT Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello has banned all street demonstrations in the Federal Capital Territory, accusing the #EndSARS protesters of violating COVID-19 safety guidelines put in place to safeguard the lives of all citizens. The minister who chaired the FCT Security Committee meeting which held on Tuesday October 13, 2020, to review the security situation in the territory with a view to addressing identified challenges, said “These violations endanger the lives of not just the demonstrators, but also other citizens going about their legitimate concerns. “For the avoidance of doubt, the COVID-19 guidelines regulating public gatherings recommend physical distancing, temperature checks, the use of facial coverings, amongst others. Clearly all these guidelines were flouted by the protesters.” According to a statement by Mr. Anthony Ogunleye, the Chief Press Secretary to the FCT minister, the committee therefore directed that due to the dangers posed by COVID-19, all street demonstrations, protests and processions would not be allowed anywhere within the FCT. The meeting which was chaired by the FCT minister also had in attendance, the Permanent Secretary, FCTA, Mr Olusade Adesola, heads of the various security agencies and military formations in the FCT, senior members of staff of the FCTA, representatives of religious and traditional institutions as well as area council chairmen. The #EndSARS protests, which continued despite the disbanding of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) by the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu, caused gridlock in the city, especially in and around Berger Roundabout where the protesters were camped for days. Hoodlums carrying cutlasses and cudgels on Wednesday attacked the protesters, injuring many and vandalizing at least five cars.