Millions of telecoms users in Borno and Yobe States have been cut off telecom networks as hoodlums damaged fibre optic infrastructure there. The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, disclosed this yesterday at a Stakeholders Consultative Forum on Implementation of the National Broadband Policy 2020-2025. Danbatta said the development was a breach to national security. He said reports reaching the commission showed that the fibre infrastructures have been cut again by Monday thereby cutting millions of people of telecom networks in the northeast. Responding to concerns raised by representatives of MTN and Airtel, he said:” Yes, we’re aware of the cut of fibre infrastructures in the northeast last Friday. We took up the matter immediately. But reports reaching me right now indicates that some labourers are responsible. And that they’ve cut it again as of today”. Danbatta said the NCC had informed the Office of the National Security Adviser as well as the government of Borno State about the development. He said efforts were already on to fix the damaged infrastructure and restore networks in the affected areas. Meanwhile, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, has directed the NCC and network operators to come up with maps of all critical telecom infrastructure in the country by next week. Pantami said this would enable the ONSA and other security agencies to man the infrastructure. The president of the Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria, Olusola Teniola appealed to the government to help in restoring the outage in the northeast. Millions of telecoms users in Borno and Yobe States have been cut off telecom networks as hoodlums damaged fibre optic infrastructure there. The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, disclosed this yesterday at a Stakeholders Consultative Forum on Implementation of the National Broadband Policy 2020-2025. Danbatta said the development was a breach to national security. He said reports reaching the commission showed that the fibre infrastructures have been cut again by Monday thereby cutting millions of people of telecom networks in the northeast. Responding to concerns raised by representatives of MTN and Airtel, he said:” Yes, we’re aware of the cut of fibre infrastructures in the northeast last Friday. We took up the matter immediately. But reports reaching me right now indicates that some labourers are responsible. And that they’ve cut it again as of today”. Danbatta said the NCC had informed the Office of the National Security Adviser as well as the government of Borno State about the development. He said efforts were already on to fix the damaged infrastructure and restore networks in the affected areas. Meanwhile, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, has directed the NCC and network operators to come up with maps of all critical telecom infrastructure in the country by next week. Pantami said this would enable the ONSA and other security agencies to man the infrastructure. The president of the Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria, Olusola Teniola appealed to the government to help in restoring the outage in the northeast.