A case has been made for the Federal Government of Nigeria to deploy a new strategy to unlock the potentials and maximise the use of the available vast natural gas resources to improve the nation’s economy. Group Executive Director, Strategy, Capital Projects & Portfolio Development, Dangote Industries Limited (DIL), Mr. Devakumar Edwin, said there was the need to find ways to exploit and utilise Nigeria’s natural gas resources to impact positively on the nation’s economy. Mr. Edwin, who was on a panel at a session of Businessday Newspaper’s Energy Series 2020 Virtual Conference said: “Nigeria has done well with respect to the reduction of gas flaring to almost 10 per cent and exporting natural gas to generate revenue. Edwin disclosed that Dangote Industries’ focus is to add value to the country’s gas resources through Dangote Subsea Gas Pipeline Project, which is expected to unlock significant gas supply for industrial activities and considerably reduce flaring in Nigeria. The series was declared opened by the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva who stated all ongoing efforts to boost infrastructure to deepen the gas sub-sector of the oil and gas industry. He also cited the renewed efforts being made to ensure the Petroleum Industry Bill is passed without further delay. A case has been made for the Federal Government of Nigeria to deploy a new strategy to unlock the potentials and maximise the use of the available vast natural gas resources to improve the nation’s economy. Group Executive Director, Strategy, Capital Projects & Portfolio Development, Dangote Industries Limited (DIL), Mr. Devakumar Edwin, said there was the need to find ways to exploit and utilise Nigeria’s natural gas resources to impact positively on the nation’s economy. Mr. Edwin, who was on a panel at a session of Businessday Newspaper’s Energy Series 2020 Virtual Conference said: “Nigeria has done well with respect to the reduction of gas flaring to almost 10 per cent and exporting natural gas to generate revenue. Edwin disclosed that Dangote Industries’ focus is to add value to the country’s gas resources through Dangote Subsea Gas Pipeline Project, which is expected to unlock significant gas supply for industrial activities and considerably reduce flaring in Nigeria. The series was declared opened by the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva who stated all ongoing efforts to boost infrastructure to deepen the gas sub-sector of the oil and gas industry. He also cited the renewed efforts being made to ensure the Petroleum Industry Bill is passed without further delay.