The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, on Wednesday, insisted on the suspension of the Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu and nine other members of the party. The position of the state chapter came 24 hours after the APC national caretaker committee chaired by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni constituted a 6-member high-level reconciliation committee headed by Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai to stem the crisis rocking the Ekiti State chapter of the party. The Architect Paul Omotosho-led APC in the state had suspended Ojudu and nine other chieftains of the party over alleged anti-party activities. The Ojudu faction of the party in the state, in a swift reaction, also announced the suspension of Governor Kayode Fayemi over alleged anti-party activities. But the national leadership of the party said the suspension of Fayemi and other members of the party by the Ojudu group was a nullity. However, while speaking in a telephone interview, on Wednesday, the Publicity Secretary of the party in the state, Ade Ajayi, said the suspension of Ojudu and others subsisted. Ajayi added that the el-Rufai reconciliation committee and the disciplinary committee set up at the state level, which recommended the suspension of Ojudu and others were saddled with distinct responsibilities with no overlapping effect. “Let me clarify here, it was only the suspension of the illegal body imposed on Governor Kayode Fayemi that was nullified and not the one that was carried out by the state disciplinary committee,” he said. Ajayi appealed to Ojudu and his group to cooperate with the El-Rufai reconciliation committee for unity to be restored in the party. When contacted, Ojudu said his group would react appropriately at the right time. The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, on Wednesday, insisted on the suspension of the Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu and nine other members of the party. The position of the state chapter came 24 hours after the APC national caretaker committee chaired by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni constituted a 6-member high-level reconciliation committee headed by Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai to stem the crisis rocking the Ekiti State chapter of the party. The Architect Paul Omotosho-led APC in the state had suspended Ojudu and nine other chieftains of the party over alleged anti-party activities. The Ojudu faction of the party in the state, in a swift reaction, also announced the suspension of Governor Kayode Fayemi over alleged anti-party activities. But the national leadership of the party said the suspension of Fayemi and other members of the party by the Ojudu group was a nullity. However, while speaking in a telephone interview, on Wednesday, the Publicity Secretary of the party in the state, Ade Ajayi, said the suspension of Ojudu and others subsisted. Ajayi added that the el-Rufai reconciliation committee and the disciplinary committee set up at the state level, which recommended the suspension of Ojudu and others were saddled with distinct responsibilities with no overlapping effect. “Let me clarify here, it was only the suspension of the illegal body imposed on Governor Kayode Fayemi that was nullified and not the one that was carried out by the state disciplinary committee,” he said. Ajayi appealed to Ojudu and his group to cooperate with the El-Rufai reconciliation committee for unity to be restored in the party. When contacted, Ojudu said his group would react appropriately at the right time.