The oil change is the ultimate introduction to Do It Yourself (DIY) vehicle maintenance. And changing your own motor oil is one of the best ways to help improve engine performance, extend engine life and save money. According to Mobil.Com, you will have to have the right tools for the job, which you can do by yourself. You will need to have motor oil from a reputable manufacturer like Mobil, Total, Ammasco and more, and also get the oil filter. You will need wheel ramps and chocks, safety glasses and gloves, ratchet and socket set, the oil filter wrench and torque wrench, a funnel and oil pan, clean rags and newspaper. Ensure you research the right oil and filter for your vehicle type by checking the vehicle manual. Before you start, wear the safety equipment, always exercise caution when using hand tools. Drive to a flat place and use a ramp to elevate your vehicle, and ensure you chock the back tyres to avoid slipping. Place the oil pan directly under the drain plug underneath the bonnet of the vehicle; place newspaper around the oil pan. Ensure the vehicle has cooled before you lose the drain plug. Attach the appropriate socket to the ratchet. Fit the socket on the drain plug. Carefully loosen the drain plug with the ratchet, slowly turning counterclockwise. Once the drain plug is loosened, complete its removal by hand. You may also have to remove a drain plug gasket. After allowing the oil to drain for several minutes, reinstall the drain plug with the torque wrench, slowly turning clockwise. You may also have to reinstall a drain plug gasket. After this, reposition the oil pan and newspaper directly under the oil filter. Fit the oil filter wrench on the oil filter. Carefully loosen the oil filter with the oil filter wrench, slowly turning counterclockwise. Once the oil filter is loosened, allow oil to drain for a few seconds before completing its removal by hand. You can now replace it with a new filter. You can now pour a new four litre or five litre oil into the engine oil section in the bonnet. Once that is done, remove the chocks and disengage the emergency brake. Place your vehicle in reverse and slowly drive it backward off the ramps. With your vehicle on a dry, level surface again, place your vehicle in park and check the oil level using the dipstick. Start the engine and allow your vehicle to idle for two minutes. During this time, visually inspect your vehicle for leaks around the drain plug and oil filter. If you see any leaks, immediately shut off the engine and investigate further; your vehicle may require replacement parts and/or professional repairs. The oil change is the ultimate introduction to Do It Yourself (DIY) vehicle maintenance. And changing your own motor oil is one of the best ways to help improve engine performance, extend engine life and save money. According to Mobil.Com, you will have to have the right tools for the job, which you can do by yourself. You will need to have motor oil from a reputable manufacturer like Mobil, Total, Ammasco and more, and also get the oil filter. You will need wheel ramps and chocks, safety glasses and gloves, ratchet and socket set, the oil filter wrench and torque wrench, a funnel and oil pan, clean rags and newspaper. Ensure you research the right oil and filter for your vehicle type by checking the vehicle manual. Before you start, wear the safety equipment, always exercise caution when using hand tools. Drive to a flat place and use a ramp to elevate your vehicle, and ensure you chock the back tyres to avoid slipping. Place the oil pan directly under the drain plug underneath the bonnet of the vehicle; place newspaper around the oil pan. Ensure the vehicle has cooled before you lose the drain plug. Attach the appropriate socket to the ratchet. Fit the socket on the drain plug. Carefully loosen the drain plug with the ratchet, slowly turning counterclockwise. Once the drain plug is loosened, complete its removal by hand. You may also have to remove a drain plug gasket. After allowing the oil to drain for several minutes, reinstall the drain plug with the torque wrench, slowly turning clockwise. You may also have to reinstall a drain plug gasket. After this, reposition the oil pan and newspaper directly under the oil filter. Fit the oil filter wrench on the oil filter. Carefully loosen the oil filter with the oil filter wrench, slowly turning counterclockwise. Once the oil filter is loosened, allow oil to drain for a few seconds before completing its removal by hand. You can now replace it with a new filter. You can now pour a new four litre or five litre oil into the engine oil section in the bonnet. Once that is done, remove the chocks and disengage the emergency brake. Place your vehicle in reverse and slowly drive it backward off the ramps. With your vehicle on a dry, level surface again, place your vehicle in park and check the oil level using the dipstick. Start the engine and allow your vehicle to idle for two minutes. During this time, visually inspect your vehicle for leaks around the drain plug and oil filter. If you see any leaks, immediately shut off the engine and investigate further; your vehicle may require replacement parts and/or professional repairs.