President Muhammadu Buhari is in a crucial virtual meeting with former Nigerian leaders, including Generals Yakubu Gowon, Olusegun Obasanjo, Abdulsalami Abubakar (retd), Goodluck Jonathan and Earnest Shonekan. President Buhari is coordinating the meeting which started at 9am from the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Physically present at the Council Chambers are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, and National Security Adviser, retired Major General Babagana Monguno. Others are the Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olanisakin, Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, Director General, Department of State Services, Yusuf Bichi and Director General, National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Rufai. On Thursday, Buhari presided over a four-hour meeting of National Security Council at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, over the #EndSARS protests across the country. The President later addressed the nation, calling on the #EndSARS protesters, particularly youths to discontinue the street protests and constructively engage government in finding solutions. He told the youths that their voice had been heard loud and clear and that the governments at federal and state level were responding. President Muhammadu Buhari is in a crucial virtual meeting with former Nigerian leaders, including Generals Yakubu Gowon, Olusegun Obasanjo, Abdulsalami Abubakar (retd), Goodluck Jonathan and Earnest Shonekan. President Buhari is coordinating the meeting which started at 9am from the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Physically present at the Council Chambers are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, and National Security Adviser, retired Major General Babagana Monguno. Others are the Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olanisakin, Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, Director General, Department of State Services, Yusuf Bichi and Director General, National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Rufai. On Thursday, Buhari presided over a four-hour meeting of National Security Council at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, over the #EndSARS protests across the country. The President later addressed the nation, calling on the #EndSARS protesters, particularly youths to discontinue the street protests and constructively engage government in finding solutions. He told the youths that their voice had been heard loud and clear and that the governments at federal and state level were responding.