FBN Holdings Plc, a local financial firm, has released its 2019 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability (CR&S) report in which it noted that its initiatives have impacted on 50,000 people across eight countries. In a statement, the company said the 2019 CR&S report highlights FBN Holdings’ continuous deepening of its contributions in responsible lending and investments; community support and environmental sustainability through initiatives such as Environmental Social and Governance Management System (ESGMS) and SPARK (Start Performing Acts of Random Kindness). The CR&S week, which began on Monday, is a week dedicated to giving and sharing by all staff and stakeholders of the group, with 2019 marking the third year since its inception at the company. “Over 40 million people have been reached; 50,000 lives in eight countries impacted; while there have been partnerships with 50 charities and NGOs,” it noted. The Group Managing Director, FBN Holdings Plc, Mr. UK Eke, said “Since 1894, our objective of upholding the highest standards in corporate citizenship and creating value for the diverse stakeholder groups we serve has remained unchanged. “Notwithstanding the results of our effort in forging a better environment, we still strive to deepen innovative and inclusive financial solutions for our customers, enrich the lives of those in the communities in which we operate, and minimize our environmental impact in line with our goals as a corporate organization.”  FBN Holdings Plc, a local financial firm, has released its 2019 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability (CR&S) report in which it noted that its initiatives have impacted on 50,000 people across eight countries. In a statement, the company said the 2019 CR&S report highlights FBN Holdings’ continuous deepening of its contributions in responsible lending and investments; community support and environmental sustainability through initiatives such as Environmental Social and Governance Management System (ESGMS) and SPARK (Start Performing Acts of Random Kindness). The CR&S week, which began on Monday, is a week dedicated to giving and sharing by all staff and stakeholders of the group, with 2019 marking the third year since its inception at the company. “Over 40 million people have been reached; 50,000 lives in eight countries impacted; while there have been partnerships with 50 charities and NGOs,” it noted. The Group Managing Director, FBN Holdings Plc, Mr. UK Eke, said “Since 1894, our objective of upholding the highest standards in corporate citizenship and creating value for the diverse stakeholder groups we serve has remained unchanged. “Notwithstanding the results of our effort in forging a better environment, we still strive to deepen innovative and inclusive financial solutions for our customers, enrich the lives of those in the communities in which we operate, and minimize our environmental impact in line with our goals as a corporate organization.” 