There is a need for communities to strategically plan their development in the face of COVID-19 pandemic presently ravaging the world, according to Cesnabmihilo Nuhu-Aken’Ova. Nuhu-Aken’Ova, the Executive Director of International Centre for Sexual Reproductive Rights (INCRESE), made this recommendation during the Nigerian Independence Day celebration organised by Diko Community with the theme: The New Normal: Lessons Diko Community must learn from COVID-19 at Mwaza Guest Inn, Diko, Niger State. “We must integrate gender through the use of gender analytical tools. “This ensures that no one is left behind. “Leaving no one behind is the single strongest central theme of the Sustainable Development Goals,” she said. Nuhu-Aken’Ova said there must be belief in “our community, our capacity and ability to take our community forward and upward.” She stated that the strategic document and its annual action plan must be made available to all who love the community and have its development at heart. Similarly, Magistrate, Niger State Judiciary, Christiana Barau, in her presentation titled “Promoting Economic and Social Rights” identified water and education as core means of helping the people realize their right to life. She noted that now more than ever, there was the need for partnerships, collaboration and collective action to build resilient water, sanitation, and hygiene systems to control and overcome covid-19, hence securing the right to Life of the citizenry. On his part, Permanent Secretary, Niger State Ministry of Environment and Forestry, Engineer Lucky Barau, reiterated the need for the community to do more on environmental sanitation to prevent the spread of communicable disease such a the coronavirus. Speaking from a Medical Perspective, a Medical Doctor with the surveillance and monitoring team of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control(NDCD), Agma Cegbeyi, revealed that the pandemic was still very much around even at the community level. “It behoves on us as a people to adhere strictly to safe protocols. “The tendency is that we can become complacent in our hygiene, leaving the community vulnerable to the virus,” he said. There is a need for communities to strategically plan their development in the face of COVID-19 pandemic presently ravaging the world, according to Cesnabmihilo Nuhu-Aken’Ova. Nuhu-Aken’Ova, the Executive Director of International Centre for Sexual Reproductive Rights (INCRESE), made this recommendation during the Nigerian Independence Day celebration organised by Diko Community with the theme: The New Normal: Lessons Diko Community must learn from COVID-19 at Mwaza Guest Inn, Diko, Niger State. “We must integrate gender through the use of gender analytical tools. “This ensures that no one is left behind. “Leaving no one behind is the single strongest central theme of the Sustainable Development Goals,” she said. Nuhu-Aken’Ova said there must be belief in “our community, our capacity and ability to take our community forward and upward.” She stated that the strategic document and its annual action plan must be made available to all who love the community and have its development at heart. Similarly, Magistrate, Niger State Judiciary, Christiana Barau, in her presentation titled “Promoting Economic and Social Rights” identified water and education as core means of helping the people realize their right to life. She noted that now more than ever, there was the need for partnerships, collaboration and collective action to build resilient water, sanitation, and hygiene systems to control and overcome covid-19, hence securing the right to Life of the citizenry. On his part, Permanent Secretary, Niger State Ministry of Environment and Forestry, Engineer Lucky Barau, reiterated the need for the community to do more on environmental sanitation to prevent the spread of communicable disease such a the coronavirus. Speaking from a Medical Perspective, a Medical Doctor with the surveillance and monitoring team of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control(NDCD), Agma Cegbeyi, revealed that the pandemic was still very much around even at the community level. “It behoves on us as a people to adhere strictly to safe protocols. “The tendency is that we can become complacent in our hygiene, leaving the community vulnerable to the virus,” he said.