The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), a leading voice in the organised private sector (OPS) in Nigeria, has postponed the 2020 edition of the Lagos International Trade Fair. The trade fair earlier scheduled to hold from November 6-15, 2020 has been rescheduled to hold from December 4-13, 2020. According to the Chamber, the fair, which will feature both physical (In-person) and virtual (Online) platforms, will run for a total of ten days at the Tafawa Balewa Stadium (TBS). The Director General of the Chamber, Dr. Muda Yusuf, explained that the postponement is occasioned by the economic disruptions brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic and the recent EndSARS protests across the nation. “The resolve to hold the 2020 edition of the fair is in line with the need for quick restoration of normalcy in the economic and commercial activities in Lagos State and our support for the ongoing ‘Protect Lagos’ Campaign, which is geared towards rebuilding the Centre of Excellence. “The opening ceremony of the exhibition is scheduled to take place on December 4, 2020 at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) Onikan in Lagos while the closing ceremony is slated for December 13, 2020 at the same. “In addition to the General Interest Fair, the annual international business expo will also feature Special days for corporate organisations to showcase their inventions, innovations, and sustainability initiatives simultaneously with the fair. “The focus, this year, is to facilitate trade and chart a way forward for the economy to exit the impending recession,” he said. The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), a leading voice in the organised private sector (OPS) in Nigeria, has postponed the 2020 edition of the Lagos International Trade Fair. The trade fair earlier scheduled to hold from November 6-15, 2020 has been rescheduled to hold from December 4-13, 2020. According to the Chamber, the fair, which will feature both physical (In-person) and virtual (Online) platforms, will run for a total of ten days at the Tafawa Balewa Stadium (TBS). The Director General of the Chamber, Dr. Muda Yusuf, explained that the postponement is occasioned by the economic disruptions brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic and the recent EndSARS protests across the nation. “The resolve to hold the 2020 edition of the fair is in line with the need for quick restoration of normalcy in the economic and commercial activities in Lagos State and our support for the ongoing ‘Protect Lagos’ Campaign, which is geared towards rebuilding the Centre of Excellence. “The opening ceremony of the exhibition is scheduled to take place on December 4, 2020 at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) Onikan in Lagos while the closing ceremony is slated for December 13, 2020 at the same. “In addition to the General Interest Fair, the annual international business expo will also feature Special days for corporate organisations to showcase their inventions, innovations, and sustainability initiatives simultaneously with the fair. “The focus, this year, is to facilitate trade and chart a way forward for the economy to exit the impending recession,” he said.