The Nasarawa State Government has partnered with the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) to conduct a census of commercial and industrial businesses across the 13 LGAs of the state. Commissioner, Ministry of Finance, Budget and Planning, Haruna Adamu Ogbole said at the training of over 50 conductors to assist NBS in conducting the census in the state. He said this registration was to ensure efficiency and effectiveness in the businesses’ operations. “Governor Abdulahi Sule places a high premium on statistical information as an integral tool for effective planning and implementation of policies and programmes of the government. “The state government is making an effort to establish the State Statistics Agency (SSA) to enable the government to cope with the present challenges. There is an enabling law coming to empower the state bureau of statistics to discharge its responsibility creditably,” he said. He said the state will continue to support NBS to enable it to discharge its responsibilities in the state.  The Nasarawa State Government has partnered with the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) to conduct a census of commercial and industrial businesses across the 13 LGAs of the state. Commissioner, Ministry of Finance, Budget and Planning, Haruna Adamu Ogbole said at the training of over 50 conductors to assist NBS in conducting the census in the state. He said this registration was to ensure efficiency and effectiveness in the businesses’ operations. “Governor Abdulahi Sule places a high premium on statistical information as an integral tool for effective planning and implementation of policies and programmes of the government. “The state government is making an effort to establish the State Statistics Agency (SSA) to enable the government to cope with the present challenges. There is an enabling law coming to empower the state bureau of statistics to discharge its responsibility creditably,” he said. He said the state will continue to support NBS to enable it to discharge its responsibilities in the state. 