The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has said it now has a real-time digital platform to drive the insurance regulations and eliminate fake insurance policies. The Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas, e, said the portal, which was in the works for six years, has been concluded. He stated this during a seminar organised for insurance journalists in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. He said with the portal, all insurance policies will be uploaded on the portal and all fake insurances can be checked as every policy in Nigeria will be uniquely identified. “We have sensitised the technical people in the industry and they have been going through a series of training. The next thing we are going to do is to engage the industry with IT guidelines. It is no longer going to be historical reporting,” he said. The commissioner said this administration in NAICOM would not fail Nigerians. “We want to be seen the way we are so we know where to make amends. NAICOM is an agency of the federal government and has the responsibility to make some impact on the economy. We will continue to relish the president’s appreciation of the industry.” Speaking on the commission’s rededication towards driving the Compulsory Insurance policy, he said it was not enough to sit in Abuja and expect the process to succeed.  The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has said it now has a real-time digital platform to drive the insurance regulations and eliminate fake insurance policies. The Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas, e, said the portal, which was in the works for six years, has been concluded. He stated this during a seminar organised for insurance journalists in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. He said with the portal, all insurance policies will be uploaded on the portal and all fake insurances can be checked as every policy in Nigeria will be uniquely identified. “We have sensitised the technical people in the industry and they have been going through a series of training. The next thing we are going to do is to engage the industry with IT guidelines. It is no longer going to be historical reporting,” he said. The commissioner said this administration in NAICOM would not fail Nigerians. “We want to be seen the way we are so we know where to make amends. NAICOM is an agency of the federal government and has the responsibility to make some impact on the economy. We will continue to relish the president’s appreciation of the industry.” Speaking on the commission’s rededication towards driving the Compulsory Insurance policy, he said it was not enough to sit in Abuja and expect the process to succeed. 