Nigeria’s foremost development finance institution, Development Bank of Nigeria, has received an accreditation certificate of acceptance in line with the Sustainable Standards and Certification Initiatives (SSCI) by the World Development Finance Forum in Germany. The certificate was received on behalf of the bank by Nigeria’s Ambassador to Germany, Mr. Yusuf Maitama Tuggar, a statement from the bank said. The certification is a global initiative for developing and maintaining the first holistic, universally accepted, and an executable set of across-the-board sustainability standards. Mrs. Mobolaji Sakirat Ogundaro, the Deputy Chief of Mission of Nigeria to Germany, who stood in for the ambassador, while receiving the certificate said, “This accreditation demonstrates the level of commitment by the Development Bank of Nigeria in integrating sustainability standards in its operations and also advocating for the adoption of principles of sustainability in the financial ecosystem in Nigeria.” The bank’s managing director, Tony Okpanachi, said, “The award shows that we’re doing something right and the international community has acknowledged that. We recognize the benefits of acceptance into an elite accreditation forum such as the Sustainability Standards and Certification Initiative (SSCI) and we do not take it for granted.” DBN was conceived by the federal government and global development partners to address major financing challenges facing Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Nigeria’s foremost development finance institution, Development Bank of Nigeria, has received an accreditation certificate of acceptance in line with the Sustainable Standards and Certification Initiatives (SSCI) by the World Development Finance Forum in Germany. The certificate was received on behalf of the bank by Nigeria’s Ambassador to Germany, Mr. Yusuf Maitama Tuggar, a statement from the bank said. The certification is a global initiative for developing and maintaining the first holistic, universally accepted, and an executable set of across-the-board sustainability standards. Mrs. Mobolaji Sakirat Ogundaro, the Deputy Chief of Mission of Nigeria to Germany, who stood in for the ambassador, while receiving the certificate said, “This accreditation demonstrates the level of commitment by the Development Bank of Nigeria in integrating sustainability standards in its operations and also advocating for the adoption of principles of sustainability in the financial ecosystem in Nigeria.” The bank’s managing director, Tony Okpanachi, said, “The award shows that we’re doing something right and the international community has acknowledged that. We recognize the benefits of acceptance into an elite accreditation forum such as the Sustainability Standards and Certification Initiative (SSCI) and we do not take it for granted.” DBN was conceived by the federal government and global development partners to address major financing challenges facing Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).