Operatives of the Ogun Police command arrested a 47-year-old security man, Adamu Ibrahim, for allegedly plotting to rob his employer. It was gathered that the suspect who is a security man attached to Inspiration Filling Station situated at Matogun area of Agbado in Ifo Local Government area of Ogun state was arrested following a report by the duo of Ajibola Yusuf and Bakare Ifakayode, at Agbado divisional police headquarters. The complainants reportedly told the police that they received a phone call from the suspect that the manager of the station would be leaving the station at about 8:00 pm with N3 million cash. According to them, the suspect gave description of the manager and his motorcycle to them, and instructed them to ambush, rob him of the money and kill him so as not to trace the incident to them. The complainants further told the police that the suspect had taken them for area boys, useful in carrying out such criminal act. The spokesman of the Police Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, on Sunday said following receipt of the report, the DPO Agbado division, SP Kehinde Kuranga, asked the duo to continue playing along with the suspect while he detailed his detectives to be on his trail. According to Oyeyemi, the suspect during interrogation denied planning any robbery with anybody, “but when confronted with his supposed accomplice, he owned up to commission of the crime.” The Commissioner of Police, Edward Awolowo Ajogun, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for further investigation.  Operatives of the Ogun Police command arrested a 47-year-old security man, Adamu Ibrahim, for allegedly plotting to rob his employer. It was gathered that the suspect who is a security man attached to Inspiration Filling Station situated at Matogun area of Agbado in Ifo Local Government area of Ogun state was arrested following a report by the duo of Ajibola Yusuf and Bakare Ifakayode, at Agbado divisional police headquarters. The complainants reportedly told the police that they received a phone call from the suspect that the manager of the station would be leaving the station at about 8:00 pm with N3 million cash. According to them, the suspect gave description of the manager and his motorcycle to them, and instructed them to ambush, rob him of the money and kill him so as not to trace the incident to them. The complainants further told the police that the suspect had taken them for area boys, useful in carrying out such criminal act. The spokesman of the Police Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, on Sunday said following receipt of the report, the DPO Agbado division, SP Kehinde Kuranga, asked the duo to continue playing along with the suspect while he detailed his detectives to be on his trail. According to Oyeyemi, the suspect during interrogation denied planning any robbery with anybody, “but when confronted with his supposed accomplice, he owned up to commission of the crime.” The Commissioner of Police, Edward Awolowo Ajogun, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for further investigation. 