The shortage of air traffic controllers in the aviation industry has persisted, stakeholders have lamented, noting that only 350 Air Traffic Controllers (ATC) man 27 airports nationwide. The Nigerian Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA) called on the Management of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) to address the shortage which it said constitutes a threat to safety in the industry. The world on Tuesday October 20 marked the International Day of Air Traffic Controller, a day set aside to celebrate ATCs striving to give the utmost in service to the flying public, to bring them safely and efficiently to their destination. With over 100,000 flights taking off and landing worldwide per day, the ATCs are responsible for safe air navigation and prevention of collisions. As at last year, only 350 ATCs man the 27 airports in Nigeria. A year later, they said the situation has worsened. President of NATCA, Abayomi Agoro in a chat with Daily Trust yesterday said there are 400 ATCs at the moment but less than 350 are active. He said while NAMA had been employing all sorts of staff, little or no attention is given to hiring technical staff like ATCs. “The earlier you do that the better for safety,” he said, adding that it will take more than two years to train one air traffic controller. “It’s not everyone that can be an Air Traffic Controller. You have to do the medical training, then aeromedical, the aptitude before you now go for training at NCAT. Then you have to do On-The-Job Training and get the Civil Aviation License. It’s a highly technical area. Somebody must measure up before you can become an Air Traffic Controller. However, the NAMA Managing Director, Capt. Fola Akinkuotu however debunked the claim. He told Daily Trust that in the last three years, the agency has employed technical staff, and are trained at the Nigeria College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria. He confirmed the shortage of ATCs but said there are efforts to recruit more, adding that even those who are self-trained or sponsored by states are being absorbed.  The shortage of air traffic controllers in the aviation industry has persisted, stakeholders have lamented, noting that only 350 Air Traffic Controllers (ATC) man 27 airports nationwide. The Nigerian Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA) called on the Management of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) to address the shortage which it said constitutes a threat to safety in the industry. The world on Tuesday October 20 marked the International Day of Air Traffic Controller, a day set aside to celebrate ATCs striving to give the utmost in service to the flying public, to bring them safely and efficiently to their destination. With over 100,000 flights taking off and landing worldwide per day, the ATCs are responsible for safe air navigation and prevention of collisions. As at last year, only 350 ATCs man the 27 airports in Nigeria. A year later, they said the situation has worsened. President of NATCA, Abayomi Agoro in a chat with Daily Trust yesterday said there are 400 ATCs at the moment but less than 350 are active. He said while NAMA had been employing all sorts of staff, little or no attention is given to hiring technical staff like ATCs. “The earlier you do that the better for safety,” he said, adding that it will take more than two years to train one air traffic controller. “It’s not everyone that can be an Air Traffic Controller. You have to do the medical training, then aeromedical, the aptitude before you now go for training at NCAT. Then you have to do On-The-Job Training and get the Civil Aviation License. It’s a highly technical area. Somebody must measure up before you can become an Air Traffic Controller. However, the NAMA Managing Director, Capt. Fola Akinkuotu however debunked the claim. He told Daily Trust that in the last three years, the agency has employed technical staff, and are trained at the Nigeria College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria. He confirmed the shortage of ATCs but said there are efforts to recruit more, adding that even those who are self-trained or sponsored by states are being absorbed. 