President Muhammadu Buhari has signed a Bilateral Air Service Agreements (BASAs) with the United States of America (USA), India, Morocco and Rwanda. The BASA agreements were signed on September 30, 2020, bringing the list of such pacts to 82 with other countries, the Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, disclosed on his Twitter handle. “I am glad to announce that Mr. President, on behalf of Nigeria, has signed the instruments of ratification of the bilateral air service agreement between Nigeria and USA, India, Morocco, as well as Rwanda.” According to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), “Nigeria being Africa’s most populous country is an important destination for over 22 foreign carriers. Nigeria currently has Bilateral Air Services Agreements with over 78 countries.” BASA is an air transport agreement between two countries and it liberalises commercial civil aviation services between the concerned nations by allowing designated airlines to operate commercial flights, covering transportation of passengers and cargoes. Nigeria leverages less than 10 per cent of the 80 BASAs. However, foreign countries have continued to benefit hugely from the Nigerian air travel market considered to be one of the most lucrative markets. Just one Nigerian registered airline operates commercial flights outside of Africa. Even at that, its capacity is small compared to the foreign airlines that fly into Nigeria. At least 22 foreign airlines fly into Nigeria.   President Muhammadu Buhari has signed a Bilateral Air Service Agreements (BASAs) with the United States of America (USA), India, Morocco and Rwanda. The BASA agreements were signed on September 30, 2020, bringing the list of such pacts to 82 with other countries, the Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, disclosed on his Twitter handle. “I am glad to announce that Mr. President, on behalf of Nigeria, has signed the instruments of ratification of the bilateral air service agreement between Nigeria and USA, India, Morocco, as well as Rwanda.” According to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), “Nigeria being Africa’s most populous country is an important destination for over 22 foreign carriers. Nigeria currently has Bilateral Air Services Agreements with over 78 countries.” BASA is an air transport agreement between two countries and it liberalises commercial civil aviation services between the concerned nations by allowing designated airlines to operate commercial flights, covering transportation of passengers and cargoes. Nigeria leverages less than 10 per cent of the 80 BASAs. However, foreign countries have continued to benefit hugely from the Nigerian air travel market considered to be one of the most lucrative markets. Just one Nigerian registered airline operates commercial flights outside of Africa. Even at that, its capacity is small compared to the foreign airlines that fly into Nigeria. At least 22 foreign airlines fly into Nigeria.  