Nasarawa State Governor Abdullahi Sule has approved the reduction of land charges by 20 per cent for prospective developers in the state. The Director-General, Nasarawa Geographical Information System (NAGIS) Mr. Sonny Agassi, said in a statement. He said the gesture, which took effect from October 1, is to reduce the developers’ hardship faced during the COVID-19 pandemic. “Governor Abdullahi Sule, Executive Governor of Nasarawa State, has approved the reduction of all outstanding payments on some land chargers,” he said. He said the outstanding payments were in categories of between N50 and N100 million. Mr. Sunny Agassi explained that outstanding payments below N50 million have been reviewed downward by 20 per cent. Similarly, payments above N100m have been reviewed downward by 25 per cent. The statement added that land titles had been approved for collection by respective applicants, saying, “All applicants who submitted applications for titles, the service has processed their documents and necessary Right of Occupancy (R of O) and Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) are now ready for collection in both Lafia and Karu offices respectively.”  Nasarawa State Governor Abdullahi Sule has approved the reduction of land charges by 20 per cent for prospective developers in the state. The Director-General, Nasarawa Geographical Information System (NAGIS) Mr. Sonny Agassi, said in a statement. He said the gesture, which took effect from October 1, is to reduce the developers’ hardship faced during the COVID-19 pandemic. “Governor Abdullahi Sule, Executive Governor of Nasarawa State, has approved the reduction of all outstanding payments on some land chargers,” he said. He said the outstanding payments were in categories of between N50 and N100 million. Mr. Sunny Agassi explained that outstanding payments below N50 million have been reviewed downward by 20 per cent. Similarly, payments above N100m have been reviewed downward by 25 per cent. The statement added that land titles had been approved for collection by respective applicants, saying, “All applicants who submitted applications for titles, the service has processed their documents and necessary Right of Occupancy (R of O) and Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) are now ready for collection in both Lafia and Karu offices respectively.” 