The embattled deputy governor of Ondo State, Hon Agboola Alfred Ajayi, has said he is not ready to resign despite his political differences with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. Ajayi, while speaking through his media aide, Comrade Allen Sowore, faulted a report that claimed that he was set to resign this week, describing it as the figment of the imagination of the writers. It could be recalled that in the buildup to the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State, Ajayi dumped APC for PDP and later defected to ZLP where he contested against Akeredolu. The first tenure of Akeredolu and Ajayi will lapse on February 23, 2021. “The news of his impending resignation is being sponsored by the governor through the propaganda machinery and machinations of Ondo State Ministry of Information as a subterfuge in preparation for a macabre plan to put the deputy governor’s forged signature on a prepared resignation letter. “The general public should be wary of these latest antics and desperation of the governor to remove his deputy by all means and at any cost illegally. “The people of Ondo State, who voted for Agboola Ajayi as deputy governor in 2016 have not asked him to resign or quit the government. “Therefore, he has no reason whatsoever to relinquish the people’s mandate, which of course is limited by term/time, democratically bestowed upon him,” the aide said. Reacting, the state Commissioner for information, Mr Donald Ojogo, said ordinarily, it should be the height of insensitivity to dissipate energy on the allegation of Ajayi against the governor. “Governor Akeredolu will rather deepen efforts as regards the current national concern of youth protest. “All the same, one does not expect anything less from a thoroughly beaten and politically minimised egocentric being. “The circumstances feeding his outburst are clearly understood. “Defeated hopes, dashed expectations and fast-lane victims are very potent kickers and shadow boxers. “The signature of anyone is too significant to be forged. “It is not in the character of Mr Governor or anyone in the government he heads. “It is left for Agboola Ajayi to place his conscience before the moral square as far as the claim about his position as deputy governor is concerned,” Ojogo said. The embattled deputy governor of Ondo State, Hon Agboola Alfred Ajayi, has said he is not ready to resign despite his political differences with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. Ajayi, while speaking through his media aide, Comrade Allen Sowore, faulted a report that claimed that he was set to resign this week, describing it as the figment of the imagination of the writers. It could be recalled that in the buildup to the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State, Ajayi dumped APC for PDP and later defected to ZLP where he contested against Akeredolu. The first tenure of Akeredolu and Ajayi will lapse on February 23, 2021. “The news of his impending resignation is being sponsored by the governor through the propaganda machinery and machinations of Ondo State Ministry of Information as a subterfuge in preparation for a macabre plan to put the deputy governor’s forged signature on a prepared resignation letter. “The general public should be wary of these latest antics and desperation of the governor to remove his deputy by all means and at any cost illegally. “The people of Ondo State, who voted for Agboola Ajayi as deputy governor in 2016 have not asked him to resign or quit the government. “Therefore, he has no reason whatsoever to relinquish the people’s mandate, which of course is limited by term/time, democratically bestowed upon him,” the aide said. Reacting, the state Commissioner for information, Mr Donald Ojogo, said ordinarily, it should be the height of insensitivity to dissipate energy on the allegation of Ajayi against the governor. “Governor Akeredolu will rather deepen efforts as regards the current national concern of youth protest. “All the same, one does not expect anything less from a thoroughly beaten and politically minimised egocentric being. “The circumstances feeding his outburst are clearly understood. “Defeated hopes, dashed expectations and fast-lane victims are very potent kickers and shadow boxers. “The signature of anyone is too significant to be forged. “It is not in the character of Mr Governor or anyone in the government he heads. “It is left for Agboola Ajayi to place his conscience before the moral square as far as the claim about his position as deputy governor is concerned,” Ojogo said.