Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki has said he is not in government to be famous or make money at the expense of the development of the state. He noted that it is time for politicians to prioritise the affairs of governance to benefit the people, adding that political leaders must remain selfless for Nigeria to attain its full potential. Speaking to journalists in Benin City, Obaseki stressed the need for putting the mechanism in place to ensure transparency in government. “Only few persons in government are held accountable for their decisions in government. “I am not in government to make money; I am not in government for fame. I am in government to serve. The youths are the reasons why I am in government. If I cannot serve you, I will quit,” he said. For things to be working in this country, he said there are structural challenges that needed to be made. “Let us not gloss over the cracks. Let us go to the foundation and begin to fix the conditions because the cracks are expanding so wide. “Issues of better government, proper governance and transparency are what we are emphasising. When we have younger people who can use technology in government, we will have transparency and accountability, which informed my decision to have many younger people working for my government,” he said. According to him, in a democracy, you need an institution that will ensure law and order. “Our security arrangement in the country must reflect our federal system as I can’t be a governor of a state and not be able to hire and fire my commissioner of police, but #ENDSARS protests have helped us start the process,” he said.  Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki has said he is not in government to be famous or make money at the expense of the development of the state. He noted that it is time for politicians to prioritise the affairs of governance to benefit the people, adding that political leaders must remain selfless for Nigeria to attain its full potential. Speaking to journalists in Benin City, Obaseki stressed the need for putting the mechanism in place to ensure transparency in government. “Only few persons in government are held accountable for their decisions in government. “I am not in government to make money; I am not in government for fame. I am in government to serve. The youths are the reasons why I am in government. If I cannot serve you, I will quit,” he said. For things to be working in this country, he said there are structural challenges that needed to be made. “Let us not gloss over the cracks. Let us go to the foundation and begin to fix the conditions because the cracks are expanding so wide. “Issues of better government, proper governance and transparency are what we are emphasising. When we have younger people who can use technology in government, we will have transparency and accountability, which informed my decision to have many younger people working for my government,” he said. According to him, in a democracy, you need an institution that will ensure law and order. “Our security arrangement in the country must reflect our federal system as I can’t be a governor of a state and not be able to hire and fire my commissioner of police, but #ENDSARS protests have helped us start the process,” he said. 