Ahead of Saturday’s governorship election in Ondo State, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has urged the staff members to resist any form of temptation. The INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, gave the charge on Thursday in Abuja. He recalled that about three weeks ago, on the eve of the Edo State Governorship election, he appealed to the staff of the commission to rise to the occasion and deliver a free, fair and credible process in accordance with the established policy. According to him, the commission’s staff members, assisted by the security agencies and other critical stakeholders, did not spare any effort in ensuring the successful conduct of the election. He said that Nigerians and friends of Nigeria are pleased with the outcome and that INEC is encouraged by their commendations. “However, we cannot afford to rest on our oars. Another end-of-tenure Governorship election is upon us. There is now an even higher expectation on Ondo State. We must consolidate on our recent achievement and account for every single vote cast on 10th October in a transparent manner which will ensure that only the choice of the electorate prevails. “I therefore implore all of you to resist any form of temptation and let your individual actions be guided by the extant laws and good conscience. Always remember that any unethical action by one INEC official is capable of rubbing off on all of us. Remain vigilant, principled and committed to the mission and vision of the commission.” Yakubu said Ahead of Saturday’s governorship election in Ondo State, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has urged the staff members to resist any form of temptation. The INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, gave the charge on Thursday in Abuja. He recalled that about three weeks ago, on the eve of the Edo State Governorship election, he appealed to the staff of the commission to rise to the occasion and deliver a free, fair and credible process in accordance with the established policy. According to him, the commission’s staff members, assisted by the security agencies and other critical stakeholders, did not spare any effort in ensuring the successful conduct of the election. He said that Nigerians and friends of Nigeria are pleased with the outcome and that INEC is encouraged by their commendations. “However, we cannot afford to rest on our oars. Another end-of-tenure Governorship election is upon us. There is now an even higher expectation on Ondo State. We must consolidate on our recent achievement and account for every single vote cast on 10th October in a transparent manner which will ensure that only the choice of the electorate prevails. “I therefore implore all of you to resist any form of temptation and let your individual actions be guided by the extant laws and good conscience. Always remember that any unethical action by one INEC official is capable of rubbing off on all of us. Remain vigilant, principled and committed to the mission and vision of the commission.” Yakubu said