A former special adviser to ex-governor Liyel Imoke on Investments Promotion, Mr Gerald Adah, has stressed the need for the six former military and civilian governors in Cross River State to form a body that will advise, caution and, if need be, call the current governor to order. The six former governors are Brigadier-General Anthony Ukpo (Rivers State), Colonel Pam Ogar (Kwara State), Lt Col Peter Edor Obi (Bayelsa State), Mr Clement Ebri, Mr Donald Duke and Senator Liyel Imoke. In an exclusive interview, Adah stressed that the body, which should also serve as a think tank, is long overdue. Adah, a former banker, was dismayed over the current situation in the state. “The time is now ripe for our elders to wake and come together to guide our state. “We have six former military and civilian governors who are still mentally sound, strong and bubbling with so much experience and exposure. We also have several deputy governors and ex-ministers as well as people who have held federal and state positions. “These highly placed people should galvanise into an advisory body, a kind of think tank to guide the governor on certain vital decisions he makes which might not augur well for the state. “It is not right for our state to be compared to some that haven’t done well in terms of security, environment and road maintenance. Cross River had gone up to such height where we were looked up as an example for other states,” he said.  A former special adviser to ex-governor Liyel Imoke on Investments Promotion, Mr Gerald Adah, has stressed the need for the six former military and civilian governors in Cross River State to form a body that will advise, caution and, if need be, call the current governor to order. The six former governors are Brigadier-General Anthony Ukpo (Rivers State), Colonel Pam Ogar (Kwara State), Lt Col Peter Edor Obi (Bayelsa State), Mr Clement Ebri, Mr Donald Duke and Senator Liyel Imoke. In an exclusive interview, Adah stressed that the body, which should also serve as a think tank, is long overdue. Adah, a former banker, was dismayed over the current situation in the state. “The time is now ripe for our elders to wake and come together to guide our state. “We have six former military and civilian governors who are still mentally sound, strong and bubbling with so much experience and exposure. We also have several deputy governors and ex-ministers as well as people who have held federal and state positions. “These highly placed people should galvanise into an advisory body, a kind of think tank to guide the governor on certain vital decisions he makes which might not augur well for the state. “It is not right for our state to be compared to some that haven’t done well in terms of security, environment and road maintenance. Cross River had gone up to such height where we were looked up as an example for other states,” he said. 