The Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, on Monday warned all Mogaji (family heads) and Baale (village heads) in the 11 local government areas in Ibadan, not to betray their respective families and villages. Oba Adetunji gave this warning during the installation of four Mogajis and seven Baales in Ibadan land. The event took place at Popoyemoja palace of Olubadan. Oba Adetunji in his remarks charged the new Mogajis and Baales not to betray their respective families and villages because they (families) are the ones that nominated them. He said, “You have now become Mogajis and Baales of your families and villages. You are to ensure that there is peace in your families and villages. You must be able to represent them well. “Do not betray your families and villages. They are the ones that nominated you. Do not do what will tarnish the image of your families and villages. I am praying that your tenure will witness tremendous development in your families and villages. You are to serve as their good ambassadors”. The newly installed Mogajis are; Dr. Fayemi Fatunde Fakayode of Onibudo Compound in Opoo Yeosa, Alhaji Lanlehin Morokola Lukman of Aare Ago family in Oke-Odo, Chief Taofeek Adeboje of Aare Oje family in Adeoyo and Chief Oyewole Timothy Olukunle of Laamo family Beere. Chief Ramoni Ogunkunle was installed as the Baale of Alata village in Oluyole local government area, Chief Fatai Ayilara was installed as Baale of Alapata village in Ido Local government area, Chief Mudashiru Obisesan was installed as Baale of Araromi Aperin in Ona Ara local government area and Chief Kamorudeen Ojelade was installed as Baale of Ojelade Idi Peregun village on Oluyole local government area. Others are; Chief Tajudeen Odebunmi who was installed as Baale of Igbodudu in Oluyole local government area, Chief Saka Olayiwola Ibitoye Ogundepo who was installed as Baale of Idi Sango/ Idi Osan village in Oluyole local government area and Elder Alamu who was installed as Baale of Isagade village in Lagelu local government area. One of the installed Mogajis, Fakayode described Ibadan chieftaincy system as the best in the world.  The Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, on Monday warned all Mogaji (family heads) and Baale (village heads) in the 11 local government areas in Ibadan, not to betray their respective families and villages. Oba Adetunji gave this warning during the installation of four Mogajis and seven Baales in Ibadan land. The event took place at Popoyemoja palace of Olubadan. Oba Adetunji in his remarks charged the new Mogajis and Baales not to betray their respective families and villages because they (families) are the ones that nominated them. He said, “You have now become Mogajis and Baales of your families and villages. You are to ensure that there is peace in your families and villages. You must be able to represent them well. “Do not betray your families and villages. They are the ones that nominated you. Do not do what will tarnish the image of your families and villages. I am praying that your tenure will witness tremendous development in your families and villages. You are to serve as their good ambassadors”. The newly installed Mogajis are; Dr. Fayemi Fatunde Fakayode of Onibudo Compound in Opoo Yeosa, Alhaji Lanlehin Morokola Lukman of Aare Ago family in Oke-Odo, Chief Taofeek Adeboje of Aare Oje family in Adeoyo and Chief Oyewole Timothy Olukunle of Laamo family Beere. Chief Ramoni Ogunkunle was installed as the Baale of Alata village in Oluyole local government area, Chief Fatai Ayilara was installed as Baale of Alapata village in Ido Local government area, Chief Mudashiru Obisesan was installed as Baale of Araromi Aperin in Ona Ara local government area and Chief Kamorudeen Ojelade was installed as Baale of Ojelade Idi Peregun village on Oluyole local government area. Others are; Chief Tajudeen Odebunmi who was installed as Baale of Igbodudu in Oluyole local government area, Chief Saka Olayiwola Ibitoye Ogundepo who was installed as Baale of Idi Sango/ Idi Osan village in Oluyole local government area and Elder Alamu who was installed as Baale of Isagade village in Lagelu local government area. One of the installed Mogajis, Fakayode described Ibadan chieftaincy system as the best in the world. 