Ahead of the Saturday’s governorship election in Ondo, the state was shut down on Wednesday by leaders of the two leading political parties as they drew the curtain on the weeklong campaign for the candidates of the party. The ruling APC and the opposition PDP which are the two leading parties in the elections nearly brought the oil rich South-West state to a standstill. Governors of both parties stormed the state to rally support for their candidate. The APC had it grand finale rally for its candidate and the incumbent Governor Rotimi Akeredolu Akure township stadium while the PDP held its rally in Ondo Town. However, there was a mild drama when many members of the PDP who were heading to Ondo Town got stuck in a gridlock along the Ondo road as the state government was said to be fixing the road. Our correspondent reports that there was tension as supporters of both parties nearly clashed in the gridlock. PDP supporters in a long convoy of campaign buses and vehicles accused the government of deliberately fixing the road to stall the PDP campaign slated for the day. Some of the APC supporters who were also heading to Akure and were caught in the gridlock had to remove their dresses to avoid being attacked by the irate PDP supporters. The gridlock generated by the road repair also delayed the arrival of the PDP dignitaries including members of the National Working Committee (NWC) and Governors. Ahead of the Saturday’s governorship election in Ondo, the state was shut down on Wednesday by leaders of the two leading political parties as they drew the curtain on the weeklong campaign for the candidates of the party. The ruling APC and the opposition PDP which are the two leading parties in the elections nearly brought the oil rich South-West state to a standstill. Governors of both parties stormed the state to rally support for their candidate. The APC had it grand finale rally for its candidate and the incumbent Governor Rotimi Akeredolu Akure township stadium while the PDP held its rally in Ondo Town. However, there was a mild drama when many members of the PDP who were heading to Ondo Town got stuck in a gridlock along the Ondo road as the state government was said to be fixing the road. Our correspondent reports that there was tension as supporters of both parties nearly clashed in the gridlock. PDP supporters in a long convoy of campaign buses and vehicles accused the government of deliberately fixing the road to stall the PDP campaign slated for the day. Some of the APC supporters who were also heading to Akure and were caught in the gridlock had to remove their dresses to avoid being attacked by the irate PDP supporters. The gridlock generated by the road repair also delayed the arrival of the PDP dignitaries including members of the National Working Committee (NWC) and Governors.