In commemoration of Nigeria’s 60th Independence anniversary, Union Bank has announced plans to reward its teeming customers in a promotion, which will run throughout the month of October. The promo is part of Union Bank’s efforts to acknowledge and reward the enduring Nigerian spirit, and celebrate both new and existing customers during this special season. As part of the campaign, each weekday in October, the first 60 customers to activate their debit cards and spend a minimum of N1,000 will receive a N2,000 cash back reward. In addition, the promo offers all Union Bank customers ‘Independence from charges’, throughout October, as they will enjoy zero fees on bill payments made via the UnionMobile App or the Bank’s USSD Code, *826#. The Bank’s Head of Retail Banking and Digital, Lola Cardoso, praised Nigerians for their tenacity and focus, despite often tough conditions. She explained that the promo is a part of Union Bank’s efforts to reward her customers as they celebrate Nigeria’s 60th Independence anniversary.  In commemoration of Nigeria’s 60th Independence anniversary, Union Bank has announced plans to reward its teeming customers in a promotion, which will run throughout the month of October. The promo is part of Union Bank’s efforts to acknowledge and reward the enduring Nigerian spirit, and celebrate both new and existing customers during this special season. As part of the campaign, each weekday in October, the first 60 customers to activate their debit cards and spend a minimum of N1,000 will receive a N2,000 cash back reward. In addition, the promo offers all Union Bank customers ‘Independence from charges’, throughout October, as they will enjoy zero fees on bill payments made via the UnionMobile App or the Bank’s USSD Code, *826#. The Bank’s Head of Retail Banking and Digital, Lola Cardoso, praised Nigerians for their tenacity and focus, despite often tough conditions. She explained that the promo is a part of Union Bank’s efforts to reward her customers as they celebrate Nigeria’s 60th Independence anniversary. 