Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi, says no fewer than 52,956 victims of flood disaster have been accommodated in 175 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps across the state. Bagudu made this known in his 60th Independence Anniversary state broadcast in Birnin Kebbi on Thursday. “However, it should be noted that the figure does not include those displaced persons squatting with their neighbours, relatives and good spirited individuals in all the areas affected.” The governor noted that the state was among those that suffered the most, and noted that the geographical location of the state and its topographical nature put it at the risk of seasonal flooding. “The 250 kilometres FADAMA plain rice producing belt was flooded by the overflow of River Rima. “And where the river joins River Niger is about 312 kilometres, and on both sides of it, is rice with other crops flooded away.“ Bagudu also noted that the destructions caused as a result of the overflow of the river led to the displacement of most of the villages and towns along the river bank across 19 Local Government Areas. These areas according to him were within Gwandu, Argungu and Yauri emirates. “In some areas bridges and roads were either washed away or submerged. “In upland Zuru Emirate, some Local Government Areas encountered heavy rain, which destroyed houses, schools, hospitals and lot of other social infrastructure. “Virtually, all the Local Government Areas in the state are affected by the heavy flooding. “We have experienced such in the past. So, it is not new to us. In 2018, there was flooding that affected 14 states, prompting Federal Government’s intervention with N23 billion, seedlings, fertilisers input, among others. “Certainly, this scale is going to be bigger, but I believe with the right sensitisation many of us can support each other to cushion the effect,” he said. The governor urged the Federal Government to come up with holistic ‘National Drainage Architecture’ to curtail future occurrence. (NAN). Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi, says no fewer than 52,956 victims of flood disaster have been accommodated in 175 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps across the state. Bagudu made this known in his 60th Independence Anniversary state broadcast in Birnin Kebbi on Thursday. “However, it should be noted that the figure does not include those displaced persons squatting with their neighbours, relatives and good spirited individuals in all the areas affected.” The governor noted that the state was among those that suffered the most, and noted that the geographical location of the state and its topographical nature put it at the risk of seasonal flooding. “The 250 kilometres FADAMA plain rice producing belt was flooded by the overflow of River Rima. “And where the river joins River Niger is about 312 kilometres, and on both sides of it, is rice with other crops flooded away.“ Bagudu also noted that the destructions caused as a result of the overflow of the river led to the displacement of most of the villages and towns along the river bank across 19 Local Government Areas. These areas according to him were within Gwandu, Argungu and Yauri emirates. “In some areas bridges and roads were either washed away or submerged. “In upland Zuru Emirate, some Local Government Areas encountered heavy rain, which destroyed houses, schools, hospitals and lot of other social infrastructure. “Virtually, all the Local Government Areas in the state are affected by the heavy flooding. “We have experienced such in the past. So, it is not new to us. In 2018, there was flooding that affected 14 states, prompting Federal Government’s intervention with N23 billion, seedlings, fertilisers input, among others. “Certainly, this scale is going to be bigger, but I believe with the right sensitisation many of us can support each other to cushion the effect,” he said. The governor urged the Federal Government to come up with holistic ‘National Drainage Architecture’ to curtail future occurrence. (NAN).