The National Mass Metering Programme will begin the nationwide distribution of free electricity meters to Nigerians today. The Senior Special Assistant to the Vice President on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, confirmed this to reporters on Thursday. He said current efforts by the Federal Government on improving power supply and mass metering was in line with some of the agreements recently reached between the government and organized labour It was gathered that there would be simultaneous launch events of the scheme in Kano, Kaduna, Eko and Ikeja DISCO franchise areas. The locations to receive meters include Bawo Road and environs in Kano metropolis, Governor Road/Tudun Wada in Kaduna (Kaduna Electric), Oshodi Business Unit in Ikeja (Ikeja Electric), and Yaba and Surulere (Eko DISCO). Key stakeholders to monitor the launch of the distribution include Kaduna, Kano and Lagos State Government representatives, the Senate Committee and House Chairman on Power as well as representatives of the organized labour and civil society organizations. He said the metering programe would roll out 6 million meters for all connections points on grid without meters over the next 18 to 24 months, estimating to impact 30 million consumers nationwide. The National Mass Metering Programme will begin the nationwide distribution of free electricity meters to Nigerians today. The Senior Special Assistant to the Vice President on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, confirmed this to reporters on Thursday. He said current efforts by the Federal Government on improving power supply and mass metering was in line with some of the agreements recently reached between the government and organized labour It was gathered that there would be simultaneous launch events of the scheme in Kano, Kaduna, Eko and Ikeja DISCO franchise areas. The locations to receive meters include Bawo Road and environs in Kano metropolis, Governor Road/Tudun Wada in Kaduna (Kaduna Electric), Oshodi Business Unit in Ikeja (Ikeja Electric), and Yaba and Surulere (Eko DISCO). Key stakeholders to monitor the launch of the distribution include Kaduna, Kano and Lagos State Government representatives, the Senate Committee and House Chairman on Power as well as representatives of the organized labour and civil society organizations. He said the metering programe would roll out 6 million meters for all connections points on grid without meters over the next 18 to 24 months, estimating to impact 30 million consumers nationwide.