As Nigeria celebrates its 60th independence anniversary, an NGO, ASKEVANA, has offered scholarship to 40 pupils and students in 10 schools in the FCT. The founder of ASKEVANA, Mrs. Eva Erokoro, on Wednesday, said the scholarship was apart from financial empowerment to some women, distribution of relief materials and donation to some orphanages and schools in the FCT. Mrs. Erokoro said she prioritised the scholarship to enhance education in the FCT, and by extension the country, stressing that with proper education, other socio-economic needs of the people could be met. Erokoro regretted that although the country is 60 years, over 69 per cent of the population lived below the poverty line, hence the need for steps to address the challenge. She said, “Education opens doors to limitless opportunities, and that was why we took the bold step to visit these schools, pay each child’s tuition fee for one year, provide grinding machines, sewing machines and pay training fees for 10 women to acquire skills for self-reliance. “Our target is to give scholarship to over 200 students before the end of the year. “Educating our children, especially the girl child, contributes significantly to environmental sustainability and improves health, as well as builds peace and resilient societies.” As Nigeria celebrates its 60th independence anniversary, an NGO, ASKEVANA, has offered scholarship to 40 pupils and students in 10 schools in the FCT. The founder of ASKEVANA, Mrs. Eva Erokoro, on Wednesday, said the scholarship was apart from financial empowerment to some women, distribution of relief materials and donation to some orphanages and schools in the FCT. Mrs. Erokoro said she prioritised the scholarship to enhance education in the FCT, and by extension the country, stressing that with proper education, other socio-economic needs of the people could be met. Erokoro regretted that although the country is 60 years, over 69 per cent of the population lived below the poverty line, hence the need for steps to address the challenge. She said, “Education opens doors to limitless opportunities, and that was why we took the bold step to visit these schools, pay each child’s tuition fee for one year, provide grinding machines, sewing machines and pay training fees for 10 women to acquire skills for self-reliance. “Our target is to give scholarship to over 200 students before the end of the year. “Educating our children, especially the girl child, contributes significantly to environmental sustainability and improves health, as well as builds peace and resilient societies.”