Board of Trustees (BoT), regional and state coordinators as well as other members of the Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) drawn from across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) on Wednesday, met in Abuja, where they declared the ‘suspension’ of the BCO National Coordinator, Danladi Pasali as a nullity. A group of BCO members had purportedly suspended Pasali on September 28, 2020, and announced Gidado Ibrahim as the new national coordinator. But reading a communique at the end of their meeting, on Wednesday, the BoT Chairman, Marcus Gundiri said Pasali who took the organization through the 2019 presidential campaign that led to President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election remained the authentic national coordinator of the organization. “The purported suspension of Alh (Dr) Danladi Garba Pasali as National Coordinator is unconstitutional, illegal, and was fraudulently made as such was never discussed or approved or authorized by the leadership and BoT of the organization. “We are hereby informing the security agents to be on the lookout for these evil perpetrators who are now parading themselves as members of this organization whereas, it’s actually on record that they have evidently gone to another group,” Gundiri said. Speaking with newsmen at the occasion, Pasali said the BCO would work hard to ensure that the APC retained power in 2023. Grand Patron/National Leader Senator Abba Ali; BoT Chairman, Engr Marcus Gundiri; Alh lsiaka Hassan (Sarikin Kudu Yanma) Foremost Leader; Pioneer National Patron Alh Quadri Abduwahab Korede; Borno state Coordinator, Engr Mohammed Makinta; North East Coordinator, Alh Kabiru Abiso; National Woman Leader, Alhaja Folashade Ojo and many others were at the meeting. Board of Trustees (BoT), regional and state coordinators as well as other members of the Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) drawn from across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) on Wednesday, met in Abuja, where they declared the ‘suspension’ of the BCO National Coordinator, Danladi Pasali as a nullity. A group of BCO members had purportedly suspended Pasali on September 28, 2020, and announced Gidado Ibrahim as the new national coordinator. But reading a communique at the end of their meeting, on Wednesday, the BoT Chairman, Marcus Gundiri said Pasali who took the organization through the 2019 presidential campaign that led to President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election remained the authentic national coordinator of the organization. “The purported suspension of Alh (Dr) Danladi Garba Pasali as National Coordinator is unconstitutional, illegal, and was fraudulently made as such was never discussed or approved or authorized by the leadership and BoT of the organization. “We are hereby informing the security agents to be on the lookout for these evil perpetrators who are now parading themselves as members of this organization whereas, it’s actually on record that they have evidently gone to another group,” Gundiri said. Speaking with newsmen at the occasion, Pasali said the BCO would work hard to ensure that the APC retained power in 2023. Grand Patron/National Leader Senator Abba Ali; BoT Chairman, Engr Marcus Gundiri; Alh lsiaka Hassan (Sarikin Kudu Yanma) Foremost Leader; Pioneer National Patron Alh Quadri Abduwahab Korede; Borno state Coordinator, Engr Mohammed Makinta; North East Coordinator, Alh Kabiru Abiso; National Woman Leader, Alhaja Folashade Ojo and many others were at the meeting.