The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved N1.208 billion for the purchase and installation of security equipment at seven stations of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) along Abuja-Kaduna-Kano lines. The Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, stated this when he briefed State House correspondents on the outcome of the meeting of the Council, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, in Abuja on Wednesday. At the briefing, Amaechi said, “We presented a memo for the supply, deployment, installation, testing and commissioning of security equipment for the seven railway stations across the federation, namely; Idu, Rigasa, Jere, Kubwa, Kaduna and Kano in the sum of N1.208bn inclusive of 7.5 per cent VAT with a completion period of 12 months.” There have been reported cases of alleged bandits’ attacks on the Abuja-Kaduna train service. The recent one involved stones thrown at one of the trains in service on the route, breaking the glasses of one of the coaches. The Managing Director of the NRC, Fidet Okhiria, had denied such reports, saying, however, “there are always hoodlums who usually throw heavy stones at the moving train along Abuja-Kaduna route.” (NAN) The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved N1.208 billion for the purchase and installation of security equipment at seven stations of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) along Abuja-Kaduna-Kano lines. The Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, stated this when he briefed State House correspondents on the outcome of the meeting of the Council, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, in Abuja on Wednesday. At the briefing, Amaechi said, “We presented a memo for the supply, deployment, installation, testing and commissioning of security equipment for the seven railway stations across the federation, namely; Idu, Rigasa, Jere, Kubwa, Kaduna and Kano in the sum of N1.208bn inclusive of 7.5 per cent VAT with a completion period of 12 months.” There have been reported cases of alleged bandits’ attacks on the Abuja-Kaduna train service. The recent one involved stones thrown at one of the trains in service on the route, breaking the glasses of one of the coaches. The Managing Director of the NRC, Fidet Okhiria, had denied such reports, saying, however, “there are always hoodlums who usually throw heavy stones at the moving train along Abuja-Kaduna route.” (NAN)