The Emir of Borgu, Niger State, Barr. Muhammed Sani Haliru Dantoro (Kitoro IV), has vowed to work with the Oil and Solid Mineral Producing Area Landlords Association of Nigeria (OMPALAN) to ensure a peaceful and united Nigeria. The emir, who spoke at his installation as patron of OMPALAN in Abuja, stressed that maintaining a peaceful and united Nigeria where there is economic prosperity for all, was a collective responsibility. He thanked OMPALAN for the honour and urged Nigerians to work together despite religious and ethnic differences. “Let me say here that it is important for all Nigerians to come together, understand our differences and work in unison for the sake of the peace of the land,” he said. On the protests by youths across the country, the emir while identifying with the concerns, however, cautioned against the situation being hijacked by the enemies of the country. “If we destroy this country, what are we going to benefit? I know there are cases of brutality but the issue is that there are still good ones among our police officers. “So we should be careful so that hoodlums do not take over the country. We should also be careful because people who want power can spend money to destroy our hard-earned democracy, forcing us as a nation to start all over again. “I know the government is working to ensure the demands of the protesters are met, so we must play our part as citizens not to allow the situation to deteriorate. “If we continue with the protest, the common man will suffer,” he cautioned. Also speaking, the President of OMPALAN, Bishop Udo Azogu, explained that the association was a federal government recognised body for non-governmental organisations (NGO) in the oil, gas and solid mineral industry. He said one of the cardinal objectives of the association was to collaborate with government agencies in securing peace and sustainable development across the country. He stressed that as an association, “We have the leverage to provide critical support to the mineral producing communities in the six geopolitical zones. “We provide support especially in the areas of peace, security, environmental protection, wealth creation, redistribution as well as the domestication of robust government policies and programmes at the grassroots,” he added. The occasion was also attended by Alh. Hammadu Abubakar (Katuka Gombe), OMPALAN Vice President, Chieftaincy Affairs and Leader North East and HRM Oba Windapo Adesola (Alara of Ara Kingdom), OMPALAN Vice President Foreign Affairs and Leader, South West. Also in attendance were High Chief (Prof.) Eyo Etim Nyong, OMPALAN National Secretary and Leader, South South as well as Princess Ajibola, OMPALAN National Women Leader.  The Emir of Borgu, Niger State, Barr. Muhammed Sani Haliru Dantoro (Kitoro IV), has vowed to work with the Oil and Solid Mineral Producing Area Landlords Association of Nigeria (OMPALAN) to ensure a peaceful and united Nigeria. The emir, who spoke at his installation as patron of OMPALAN in Abuja, stressed that maintaining a peaceful and united Nigeria where there is economic prosperity for all, was a collective responsibility. He thanked OMPALAN for the honour and urged Nigerians to work together despite religious and ethnic differences. “Let me say here that it is important for all Nigerians to come together, understand our differences and work in unison for the sake of the peace of the land,” he said. On the protests by youths across the country, the emir while identifying with the concerns, however, cautioned against the situation being hijacked by the enemies of the country. “If we destroy this country, what are we going to benefit? I know there are cases of brutality but the issue is that there are still good ones among our police officers. “So we should be careful so that hoodlums do not take over the country. We should also be careful because people who want power can spend money to destroy our hard-earned democracy, forcing us as a nation to start all over again. “I know the government is working to ensure the demands of the protesters are met, so we must play our part as citizens not to allow the situation to deteriorate. “If we continue with the protest, the common man will suffer,” he cautioned. Also speaking, the President of OMPALAN, Bishop Udo Azogu, explained that the association was a federal government recognised body for non-governmental organisations (NGO) in the oil, gas and solid mineral industry. He said one of the cardinal objectives of the association was to collaborate with government agencies in securing peace and sustainable development across the country. He stressed that as an association, “We have the leverage to provide critical support to the mineral producing communities in the six geopolitical zones. “We provide support especially in the areas of peace, security, environmental protection, wealth creation, redistribution as well as the domestication of robust government policies and programmes at the grassroots,” he added. The occasion was also attended by Alh. Hammadu Abubakar (Katuka Gombe), OMPALAN Vice President, Chieftaincy Affairs and Leader North East and HRM Oba Windapo Adesola (Alara of Ara Kingdom), OMPALAN Vice President Foreign Affairs and Leader, South West. Also in attendance were High Chief (Prof.) Eyo Etim Nyong, OMPALAN National Secretary and Leader, South South as well as Princess Ajibola, OMPALAN National Women Leader. 