The Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) has said states that update their property records before June 30, 2021, to capture at least 50 per cent of the properties that have electricity connections in urban areas, will each unlock a $2 million grant from the World Bank. The instrument is the bank’s-funded States Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS) Programme for Results. The NGF, in a statement however, said these property records must reflect accurate information about the name of the owner/occupier, size of the land parcel, size of the building, use of the land/property amongst other criteria required by the programme. It said states are at varying stages of the deployment of the Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Technology to strengthen land administration, stressing that Kaduna, Kogi, Lagos, Oyo, Nasarawa and Gombe are leading. There will be two Virtual Peer Learning Events (PLEs) on “Using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Technology to Strengthen Land Administration and Property Taxation” at the subnational level. They are organized by the NGF and the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning (FMFBNP) assisted by the World Bank. The Senior Programme Manager of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum SFTAS Technical Assistance Project, Olanrewaju Ajogbasile, who shared the invitation, disclosed that the two Peer Learning Events (PLEs) will hold on November 15 and 16, 2020. Ajogbasile said the states were determined to get it right this time and ensure old mistakes are not repeated. He noted that at least 160 persons would be in attendance at both Peer Learning events, including state actors, partners and implementing agencies on the SFTAS programme.  The Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) has said states that update their property records before June 30, 2021, to capture at least 50 per cent of the properties that have electricity connections in urban areas, will each unlock a $2 million grant from the World Bank. The instrument is the bank’s-funded States Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS) Programme for Results. The NGF, in a statement however, said these property records must reflect accurate information about the name of the owner/occupier, size of the land parcel, size of the building, use of the land/property amongst other criteria required by the programme. It said states are at varying stages of the deployment of the Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Technology to strengthen land administration, stressing that Kaduna, Kogi, Lagos, Oyo, Nasarawa and Gombe are leading. There will be two Virtual Peer Learning Events (PLEs) on “Using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Technology to Strengthen Land Administration and Property Taxation” at the subnational level. They are organized by the NGF and the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning (FMFBNP) assisted by the World Bank. The Senior Programme Manager of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum SFTAS Technical Assistance Project, Olanrewaju Ajogbasile, who shared the invitation, disclosed that the two Peer Learning Events (PLEs) will hold on November 15 and 16, 2020. Ajogbasile said the states were determined to get it right this time and ensure old mistakes are not repeated. He noted that at least 160 persons would be in attendance at both Peer Learning events, including state actors, partners and implementing agencies on the SFTAS programme. 