Barring any last-minute change, the All Progressives Congress (APC) will roll out a programme for its national convention where a new crop of National Working Committee (NWC) members will emerge. Impeccable sources in the ruling party gave the hint to our correspondent on Wednesday in Abuja, that a schedule of activities for the convention would be rolled out in November. Daily Trust reports that the National Executive Committee (NEC) which is the second-highest decision-making organ of the party would thereafter meet to approve the convention date before the commencement of sales of nomination forms to aspirants. The NEC had in June 2020, sacked the Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC over alleged abuse of office and constituted a Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee headed by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni to run the party and organise a national convention within six months. A member of the APC National Caucus, Chief Sam Nkire, told our correspondent over the phone on Wednesday that the Buni-led committee is working according to plan. “It is holding discussions and making peace among aggrieved members of the party, and sooner than later, the plan for the convention will be rolled out and the party will become stronger. “After the Ondo election and the by-elections, a timetable will be rolled out. We have not finished with our programmes to bring Nigeria out of economic and political problems. So, we are re-organising. The APC is working in-house,” he said. Similarly, a member of the Buni-led caretaker committee who craved anonymity hinted to our correspondent on Wednesday that the interim panel would roll out a programme of activities for the convention after the October 31, 2020 by-elections coming up in eight states. “We will roll out a programme of activities hopefully in November. This convention is important to us because it will determine our fate in 2023,” he added. Asked whether the committee will discharge its mandate within the timeframe allotted it, in the wake of speculations about the likelihood of its tenure extension, he said, “We are doing our best.” Contacted,  the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary,  Yekini Nabena told our correspondent in a telephone chat that, “The party is, first of all, focusing on the by-elections and after that, we will let the public know the next step.” Barring any last-minute change, the All Progressives Congress (APC) will roll out a programme for its national convention where a new crop of National Working Committee (NWC) members will emerge. Impeccable sources in the ruling party gave the hint to our correspondent on Wednesday in Abuja, that a schedule of activities for the convention would be rolled out in November. Daily Trust reports that the National Executive Committee (NEC) which is the second-highest decision-making organ of the party would thereafter meet to approve the convention date before the commencement of sales of nomination forms to aspirants. The NEC had in June 2020, sacked the Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC over alleged abuse of office and constituted a Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee headed by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni to run the party and organise a national convention within six months. A member of the APC National Caucus, Chief Sam Nkire, told our correspondent over the phone on Wednesday that the Buni-led committee is working according to plan. “It is holding discussions and making peace among aggrieved members of the party, and sooner than later, the plan for the convention will be rolled out and the party will become stronger. “After the Ondo election and the by-elections, a timetable will be rolled out. We have not finished with our programmes to bring Nigeria out of economic and political problems. So, we are re-organising. The APC is working in-house,” he said. Similarly, a member of the Buni-led caretaker committee who craved anonymity hinted to our correspondent on Wednesday that the interim panel would roll out a programme of activities for the convention after the October 31, 2020 by-elections coming up in eight states. “We will roll out a programme of activities hopefully in November. This convention is important to us because it will determine our fate in 2023,” he added. Asked whether the committee will discharge its mandate within the timeframe allotted it, in the wake of speculations about the likelihood of its tenure extension, he said, “We are doing our best.” Contacted,  the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary,  Yekini Nabena told our correspondent in a telephone chat that, “The party is, first of all, focusing on the by-elections and after that, we will let the public know the next step.”