The Development Bank of Nigeria Plc has empowered 125 entrepreneurs in Lagos and Abuja. The capacity training program, which held first in 2019 had 100 participants drawn from the 6 geographical zones of the country who converged in Abuja and Lagos for the training. This year, the number was increased to 125 participants to accommodate more participants with the focus on impacting Nigerian MSMEs with the resilience needed for survival and sustenance especially, in the wake of the COVID-19 global pandemic. The small business owners were lectured on digital marketing strategies and basic promotional tools by business experts with lectures on accessing business opportunities. DBN Managing Director, Tony Okpanachi stated that, “while funding is a major problem for MSMEs in Nigeria, there’s also the need to equip our entrepreneurs with critical management skills required to ensure they are better structured and able to effectively manage their respective businesses.” He further explained that being a development financial institution, DBN tends to view problems militating against SMEs from a holistic perspective. “The Capacity Building initiative is an integral part of the bank’s mandate to drive economic growth by empowering MSMEs with the skills required to improve their capacity and productivity,” he said.  The Development Bank of Nigeria Plc has empowered 125 entrepreneurs in Lagos and Abuja. The capacity training program, which held first in 2019 had 100 participants drawn from the 6 geographical zones of the country who converged in Abuja and Lagos for the training. This year, the number was increased to 125 participants to accommodate more participants with the focus on impacting Nigerian MSMEs with the resilience needed for survival and sustenance especially, in the wake of the COVID-19 global pandemic. The small business owners were lectured on digital marketing strategies and basic promotional tools by business experts with lectures on accessing business opportunities. DBN Managing Director, Tony Okpanachi stated that, “while funding is a major problem for MSMEs in Nigeria, there’s also the need to equip our entrepreneurs with critical management skills required to ensure they are better structured and able to effectively manage their respective businesses.” He further explained that being a development financial institution, DBN tends to view problems militating against SMEs from a holistic perspective. “The Capacity Building initiative is an integral part of the bank’s mandate to drive economic growth by empowering MSMEs with the skills required to improve their capacity and productivity,” he said. 