The police in Benue State at the weekend commended youths in the state for conducting themselves peacefully during the EndSARS protest. The state Commissioner of Police, Mukaddas Garba, gave the commendation in a statement signed by his spokesperson, DSP Catherine Anene in Makurdi. “You have the right to freedom of expression as enshrined in the 1999 constitution as amended and you have successfully communicated to the government without breaching peace. “The command is committed to ensuring that you express yourselves in a very peaceful and organised way to prevent breakdown of law and order,” he stated. The police commissioner added that the command, in view of the situation had deployed police officers at strategic points within the state to ensure safety of lives and property. He urged members of the public to give maximum support and information to prevent breakdown of law and order. Garba advised all stakeholders including religious leaders, traditional leaders and youth leaders at various levels to continue to prevail on their wards/subjects to remain peaceful in all circumstances and prevent miscreants from causing mayhem just as he commended members of the press for their professional and ethical conduct in positively reporting issues around the protest.  The police in Benue State at the weekend commended youths in the state for conducting themselves peacefully during the EndSARS protest. The state Commissioner of Police, Mukaddas Garba, gave the commendation in a statement signed by his spokesperson, DSP Catherine Anene in Makurdi. “You have the right to freedom of expression as enshrined in the 1999 constitution as amended and you have successfully communicated to the government without breaching peace. “The command is committed to ensuring that you express yourselves in a very peaceful and organised way to prevent breakdown of law and order,” he stated. The police commissioner added that the command, in view of the situation had deployed police officers at strategic points within the state to ensure safety of lives and property. He urged members of the public to give maximum support and information to prevent breakdown of law and order. Garba advised all stakeholders including religious leaders, traditional leaders and youth leaders at various levels to continue to prevail on their wards/subjects to remain peaceful in all circumstances and prevent miscreants from causing mayhem just as he commended members of the press for their professional and ethical conduct in positively reporting issues around the protest. 