An FCT High Court sitting in Jabi, Abuja, has restrained the Minister of the FCT, Muhammad Musa Bello, and the management of the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC) from marking and demolishing houses belonging to Gbagyi natives in Aleita, along Airport Road, Abuja. The judge, Justice Danlami D. Sanchi, gave the order following an interlocutory injunction filed by the Counsel to the Gbagyi natives of Aleita Community, Barr. Ali D. Zubairu. Barr. Zubairu had approached the court to restrain the minister and AMMC from going ahead with marking and demolishing of houses in the area. The judge ruled that the marking and demolition of houses belonging to the Gbagyi natives of the community should be put on hold pending the determination of the substantive suit filed by the Gbagyi natives. Counsel to the FCDA, Barr. Betty A. Umegbulem, in her earlier submission, called for accelerated hearing of the matter. Justice Sanchi, thereafter, adjourned the case to November 30 and December 1, 2020, where the claimants will open their case, while the minister and AMMC will defend. An FCT High Court sitting in Jabi, Abuja, has restrained the Minister of the FCT, Muhammad Musa Bello, and the management of the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC) from marking and demolishing houses belonging to Gbagyi natives in Aleita, along Airport Road, Abuja. The judge, Justice Danlami D. Sanchi, gave the order following an interlocutory injunction filed by the Counsel to the Gbagyi natives of Aleita Community, Barr. Ali D. Zubairu. Barr. Zubairu had approached the court to restrain the minister and AMMC from going ahead with marking and demolishing of houses in the area. The judge ruled that the marking and demolition of houses belonging to the Gbagyi natives of the community should be put on hold pending the determination of the substantive suit filed by the Gbagyi natives. Counsel to the FCDA, Barr. Betty A. Umegbulem, in her earlier submission, called for accelerated hearing of the matter. Justice Sanchi, thereafter, adjourned the case to November 30 and December 1, 2020, where the claimants will open their case, while the minister and AMMC will defend.