Dangote Cement Plc has announced the extension of its ongoing Spell & Win “Bag of Goodies” Season 2 consumer promo by one month, as 265 millionaires have emerged nationwide. Director of Marketing, Dangote Cement Plc, Mrs. Funmi Sanni, disclosed that the promo, which was billed to end on November 15, has now been extended to now close December 15, 2020. She said the extension is due to popular demand by excited consumers and other stakeholders who still want to participate and emerge as millionaires in the promo. Mrs. Sanni said a customer could only win the N1 million cash prize on collection of the scratch cards that each carries letter D, A, N, G, O, T and E to make up the name D-A-N-G-O-T-E. She added that other prizes to be won include motorbikes, tricycles, TV sets, recharge cards, among other prizes in the promotion that will now end on December 15, 2020. National Sales Director, Dangote Cement, Adeyemi Fajobi said following the negative impact of COVID-19 on the economy, Dangote Cement decided to award a total of N1 billion to 1,000 winners across the country. While presenting dummy cheques to winners in Port Harcourt, Regional Director, South-South Dangote Cement Plc, Mr. George Okoro, noted that the promo is to reward Nigerians for their continued patronage over the years in using Dangote Cement. Regional Director, Lagos/Ogun States, Dangote Cement Plc, Mr. Tunde Mabogunje, welcomed the new winners from Lagos at the prize giving ceremony held in Ikeja and commended them for their loyalty and continuous use of Dangote Cement in their projects. Regional Director, South East, Mr. Bankole George, addressing the winners at the event held at the regional office in Enugu, tasked them to buy more Dangote Cement as there are chances of winning as many times as possible. Dangote Cement Plc has announced the extension of its ongoing Spell & Win “Bag of Goodies” Season 2 consumer promo by one month, as 265 millionaires have emerged nationwide. Director of Marketing, Dangote Cement Plc, Mrs. Funmi Sanni, disclosed that the promo, which was billed to end on November 15, has now been extended to now close December 15, 2020. She said the extension is due to popular demand by excited consumers and other stakeholders who still want to participate and emerge as millionaires in the promo. Mrs. Sanni said a customer could only win the N1 million cash prize on collection of the scratch cards that each carries letter D, A, N, G, O, T and E to make up the name D-A-N-G-O-T-E. She added that other prizes to be won include motorbikes, tricycles, TV sets, recharge cards, among other prizes in the promotion that will now end on December 15, 2020. National Sales Director, Dangote Cement, Adeyemi Fajobi said following the negative impact of COVID-19 on the economy, Dangote Cement decided to award a total of N1 billion to 1,000 winners across the country. While presenting dummy cheques to winners in Port Harcourt, Regional Director, South-South Dangote Cement Plc, Mr. George Okoro, noted that the promo is to reward Nigerians for their continued patronage over the years in using Dangote Cement. Regional Director, Lagos/Ogun States, Dangote Cement Plc, Mr. Tunde Mabogunje, welcomed the new winners from Lagos at the prize giving ceremony held in Ikeja and commended them for their loyalty and continuous use of Dangote Cement in their projects. Regional Director, South East, Mr. Bankole George, addressing the winners at the event held at the regional office in Enugu, tasked them to buy more Dangote Cement as there are chances of winning as many times as possible.