Heads of Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) have been advised to stop coming with their security details to public hearing rooms of the National Assembly. This was disclosed by the Speaker, House Of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila in a vote of thanks after the budget presentation by Preaident Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday. He said the move was to minimise the proliferation of arms in the hearing rooms as witnessed in the past. “All MDAs who come to defend budget will come without security details to avoid the proliferation of arms during hearings,” he said. Gbajabiamila said, number of people will also be minimised because of the COVID-19 protocols being observed in the House. Speaking on the budget presentation, he said, they have experienced the beauty of democracy in the laying of budget by the president. He commended the president for coming to the National Assembly adding that, they have fulfilled their promise on the passage of the 2020 budget. The Speaker commended members of the National Assembly for realising and achievement of their commitment of budget passage on time. According to him, the 2021 Budget proposal like in 2020 has reflected Nigeria’s priorities and departure from reliance on oil as the main source of revenue by its focus on economic diversification. He emphasised that lessons learnt in 2020 should be considered in the 2021 budget. Heads of Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) have been advised to stop coming with their security details to public hearing rooms of the National Assembly. This was disclosed by the Speaker, House Of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila in a vote of thanks after the budget presentation by Preaident Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday. He said the move was to minimise the proliferation of arms in the hearing rooms as witnessed in the past. “All MDAs who come to defend budget will come without security details to avoid the proliferation of arms during hearings,” he said. Gbajabiamila said, number of people will also be minimised because of the COVID-19 protocols being observed in the House. Speaking on the budget presentation, he said, they have experienced the beauty of democracy in the laying of budget by the president. He commended the president for coming to the National Assembly adding that, they have fulfilled their promise on the passage of the 2020 budget. The Speaker commended members of the National Assembly for realising and achievement of their commitment of budget passage on time. According to him, the 2021 Budget proposal like in 2020 has reflected Nigeria’s priorities and departure from reliance on oil as the main source of revenue by its focus on economic diversification. He emphasised that lessons learnt in 2020 should be considered in the 2021 budget.