The family of a 19-year-old barber, Samson Jonah, shot dead by a police inspector at the weekend in Apo District of Abuja, has demanded adequate compensation, accusing police hierarchy of inaction. In addition, the family has demanded the prosecution of the alleged culprit, Inspector Simon Jonah, who reportedly shot dead the teenager on Saturday by 9 am in Dutse-Apo, an Abuja slum, where both of them were residing. An uncle of the deceased, Mr. Pius Gyang, who arrived from Barkin-Ladi, Plateau State, where the deceased hails from, told City News yesterday that, following the development, the FCT Police Commissioner Bala Ciroma, met with them at Apo police division where he was represented by the police area commander in charge of the area but the family was dissatisfied with their response. “We told the police about the status of the late boy to his family, that he is the bread winner of the family, since his father became ill and has been bedridden and demanded that something should be done to see how the family would be assisted. “But the police response was that, the incident had taken place outside of duty hence they could do nothing about it. “This is logically wrong for the fact that the culprit is their officer and was assigned on protective duty to a lady who was said to have travelled. “Besides, the weapon he used in committing the act was given to him by the police authority,” he said. Gayang stressed that the deceased was billed to commission his personal barbers’  shop a day before the incident, having been released by his teacher, only for the unfortunate incident to happen, while taking breakfast along with others, behind a drinking joint in the area. Meanwhile, the FCT police command has commiserated with the family and friends of the deceased. The Commissioner of Police FCT Command, CP Bala Ciroma, has ordered a meticulous investigation into the gunshot incident that led to the death of Jonah  at Apo on Saturday 3rd October, 2020. “The police officer identified to have shot the deceased has been arrested, detained and will be charged accordingly,” a statement by the command signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mariam Yusuf, said. “While commiserating with the family and friends of the deceased, the Commissioner of Police wishes to guarantee members of the public that the Command will be lucid in its investigation and ensure the findings are made public,” the statement added. The family of a 19-year-old barber, Samson Jonah, shot dead by a police inspector at the weekend in Apo District of Abuja, has demanded adequate compensation, accusing police hierarchy of inaction. In addition, the family has demanded the prosecution of the alleged culprit, Inspector Simon Jonah, who reportedly shot dead the teenager on Saturday by 9 am in Dutse-Apo, an Abuja slum, where both of them were residing. An uncle of the deceased, Mr. Pius Gyang, who arrived from Barkin-Ladi, Plateau State, where the deceased hails from, told City News yesterday that, following the development, the FCT Police Commissioner Bala Ciroma, met with them at Apo police division where he was represented by the police area commander in charge of the area but the family was dissatisfied with their response. “We told the police about the status of the late boy to his family, that he is the bread winner of the family, since his father became ill and has been bedridden and demanded that something should be done to see how the family would be assisted. “But the police response was that, the incident had taken place outside of duty hence they could do nothing about it. “This is logically wrong for the fact that the culprit is their officer and was assigned on protective duty to a lady who was said to have travelled. “Besides, the weapon he used in committing the act was given to him by the police authority,” he said. Gayang stressed that the deceased was billed to commission his personal barbers’  shop a day before the incident, having been released by his teacher, only for the unfortunate incident to happen, while taking breakfast along with others, behind a drinking joint in the area. Meanwhile, the FCT police command has commiserated with the family and friends of the deceased. The Commissioner of Police FCT Command, CP Bala Ciroma, has ordered a meticulous investigation into the gunshot incident that led to the death of Jonah  at Apo on Saturday 3rd October, 2020. “The police officer identified to have shot the deceased has been arrested, detained and will be charged accordingly,” a statement by the command signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mariam Yusuf, said. “While commiserating with the family and friends of the deceased, the Commissioner of Police wishes to guarantee members of the public that the Command will be lucid in its investigation and ensure the findings are made public,” the statement added.