The Ekiti State government has asked the kingmakers of Ipao Ekiti in Ikole Local Government Area to select a king within 14 days to fill the royal stool of Obanla that had been vacant for four years. The ultimatum was given on Wednesday at a meeting presided over by the Deputy Governor of the state, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi. Otunba Egbeyemi said the state government is not happy that the town had been without a traditional ruler since 2016. The former Obanla of Ipao Ekiti, Oba Joseph Bolaji Aina, who ascended the throne in 1962, joined his ancestors in 2016, after reigning for 54 years. Government said it would abide by the 1982 Ipao Ekiti Chieftaincy Gazette which stipulated that it was the turn of the Adesogan Ruling House to produce the next Obanla. The other Ruling Houses are Angbesi Arojojoye and Ogungbuyi Speaking at the meeting with kingmakers, Otunba Egbeyemi, explained that development and progress of any town without a traditional ruler would be adversely affected, hence the need to fill the stool as early as possible, adding that the administration of Governor Kayode Fayemi is desirous of promptly filling vacant stools. Egbeyemi, who explained that the four surviving kingmakers formed a quorum to select a new king for the community, urged them to perform the function with utmost sense of integrity and fear of God. He warned that government may be compelled to appoint warrant chiefs to select a new monarch if the kingmakers fail to perform their duties within the time allowed by law. “We can’t deviate from what is in the gazette produced in 1982. We are giving you fourteen days to let us know your Oba-elect,” he said. The kingmakers who spoke one after the other promised to carry out the assignment with utmost sense of responsibility within the stipulated time. The Ekiti State government has asked the kingmakers of Ipao Ekiti in Ikole Local Government Area to select a king within 14 days to fill the royal stool of Obanla that had been vacant for four years. The ultimatum was given on Wednesday at a meeting presided over by the Deputy Governor of the state, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi. Otunba Egbeyemi said the state government is not happy that the town had been without a traditional ruler since 2016. The former Obanla of Ipao Ekiti, Oba Joseph Bolaji Aina, who ascended the throne in 1962, joined his ancestors in 2016, after reigning for 54 years. Government said it would abide by the 1982 Ipao Ekiti Chieftaincy Gazette which stipulated that it was the turn of the Adesogan Ruling House to produce the next Obanla. The other Ruling Houses are Angbesi Arojojoye and Ogungbuyi Speaking at the meeting with kingmakers, Otunba Egbeyemi, explained that development and progress of any town without a traditional ruler would be adversely affected, hence the need to fill the stool as early as possible, adding that the administration of Governor Kayode Fayemi is desirous of promptly filling vacant stools. Egbeyemi, who explained that the four surviving kingmakers formed a quorum to select a new king for the community, urged them to perform the function with utmost sense of integrity and fear of God. He warned that government may be compelled to appoint warrant chiefs to select a new monarch if the kingmakers fail to perform their duties within the time allowed by law. “We can’t deviate from what is in the gazette produced in 1982. We are giving you fourteen days to let us know your Oba-elect,” he said. The kingmakers who spoke one after the other promised to carry out the assignment with utmost sense of responsibility within the stipulated time.