A Magistrates’ Court in Makurdi on Thursday ordered that five farmers be remanded in a correctional centre for alleged armed robbery and attempted culpable homicide. The police charged Ushahemba Iortyer, Kula Igbadoo, Neor Asaamoga, Fanen Desemenge and Awua Sonter with three counts of criminal conspiracy, armed robbery and attempted culpable homicide. Magistrate Vincent Kor did not take the plea of the farmers for want of jurisdiction. Kor adjourned the matter until Nov. 16, for further mention. Earlier, the Prosecution Counsel, ASP Hyacinth Gbakor, told the court that the case was transferred from the Nigeria Police Divisional Headquarters, Ukum, to the State CID, Makurdi, on Oct. 16. Gbakor said the complainant; Terngu Aondover of New City, Zaki-Biam, in Benue State reported the case on Sept. 25. He alleged that the suspects attacked the complainant in his house, while armed with guns and robbed him of N225, 000 and properties valued at N134, 000. (NAN)   Gbakor also alleged that the suspects stabbed him with a knife.  The offence, he said, contravened the provisions of sections 6(b), 1(1)(2)(a)(b) of the Robbery and Firearms Act, 2004 and 230 of the Penal Code Laws of Benue, 2004. A Magistrates’ Court in Makurdi on Thursday ordered that five farmers be remanded in a correctional centre for alleged armed robbery and attempted culpable homicide. The police charged Ushahemba Iortyer, Kula Igbadoo, Neor Asaamoga, Fanen Desemenge and Awua Sonter with three counts of criminal conspiracy, armed robbery and attempted culpable homicide. Magistrate Vincent Kor did not take the plea of the farmers for want of jurisdiction. Kor adjourned the matter until Nov. 16, for further mention. Earlier, the Prosecution Counsel, ASP Hyacinth Gbakor, told the court that the case was transferred from the Nigeria Police Divisional Headquarters, Ukum, to the State CID, Makurdi, on Oct. 16. Gbakor said the complainant; Terngu Aondover of New City, Zaki-Biam, in Benue State reported the case on Sept. 25. He alleged that the suspects attacked the complainant in his house, while armed with guns and robbed him of N225, 000 and properties valued at N134, 000. (NAN)   Gbakor also alleged that the suspects stabbed him with a knife.  The offence, he said, contravened the provisions of sections 6(b), 1(1)(2)(a)(b) of the Robbery and Firearms Act, 2004 and 230 of the Penal Code Laws of Benue, 2004.