President Donald Trump of the United States of America (U.S.A) has been flown to hospital less than 24 hours after testing positive for coronavirus, according to a BBC report. The White House said the decision to transport him to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center was taken “out of an abundance of caution”. Mr Trump began exhibiting “mild symptoms” of COVID-19 on Thursday. He said early on Friday he and First Lady Melania Trump had tested positive. The White House said he was feeling “fatigued but in good spirits”. The news comes just over a month before presidential elections, where he will face Democratic challenger, Joe Biden. According to the BBC report, Trump was wearing a mask and suit when he walked out across the White House lawn on Friday afternoon to his helicopter, Marine One, for the short trip to hospital. He waved and gave a thumbs-up to reporters but said nothing before boarding the aircraft. In a video posted to Twitter, Mr Trump said: “I want to thank everybody for the tremendous support. “I’m going to Walter Reed hospital. “I think I’m doing very well. “But we’re going to make sure that things work out. “The first lady is doing very well. “So thank you very much, I appreciate it, I will never forget it – thank you.”  A White House spokesperson said in a statement: “President Trump remains in good spirits, has mild symptoms, and has been working throughout the day. “Out of an abundance of caution, and at the recommendation of his physician and medical experts, the president will be working from the presidential offices at Walter Reed for the next few days.” Mr Trump’s symptoms include a low-grade fever, according to the BBC’s US partner, CBS News.  Walter Reed, in the Washington DC suburbs, is one of America’s largest and most renowned military medical centres. It is where US presidents usually go for their annual check-ups. White House communications director Alyssa Farah said the president had not transferred his powers to Vice-President Mike Pence. “The president is in charge,” she said. Under the US constitution, if Mr Trump did become too ill to carry out his duties, he could hand over his powers to the vice-president temporarily. That means Mike Pence would become acting president until Mr Trump was fit again and could resume work. President Donald Trump of the United States of America (U.S.A) has been flown to hospital less than 24 hours after testing positive for coronavirus, according to a BBC report. The White House said the decision to transport him to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center was taken “out of an abundance of caution”. Mr Trump began exhibiting “mild symptoms” of COVID-19 on Thursday. He said early on Friday he and First Lady Melania Trump had tested positive. The White House said he was feeling “fatigued but in good spirits”. The news comes just over a month before presidential elections, where he will face Democratic challenger, Joe Biden. According to the BBC report, Trump was wearing a mask and suit when he walked out across the White House lawn on Friday afternoon to his helicopter, Marine One, for the short trip to hospital. He waved and gave a thumbs-up to reporters but said nothing before boarding the aircraft. In a video posted to Twitter, Mr Trump said: “I want to thank everybody for the tremendous support. “I’m going to Walter Reed hospital. “I think I’m doing very well. “But we’re going to make sure that things work out. “The first lady is doing very well. “So thank you very much, I appreciate it, I will never forget it – thank you.”  A White House spokesperson said in a statement: “President Trump remains in good spirits, has mild symptoms, and has been working throughout the day. “Out of an abundance of caution, and at the recommendation of his physician and medical experts, the president will be working from the presidential offices at Walter Reed for the next few days.” Mr Trump’s symptoms include a low-grade fever, according to the BBC’s US partner, CBS News.  Walter Reed, in the Washington DC suburbs, is one of America’s largest and most renowned military medical centres. It is where US presidents usually go for their annual check-ups. White House communications director Alyssa Farah said the president had not transferred his powers to Vice-President Mike Pence. “The president is in charge,” she said. Under the US constitution, if Mr Trump did become too ill to carry out his duties, he could hand over his powers to the vice-president temporarily. That means Mike Pence would become acting president until Mr Trump was fit again and could resume work.