Domestic airlines have announced resumption of flights to and from the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos 48 hours after they cancelled flights to the nation’s commercial capital following the curfew imposed by the state government. With the partial lifting of the curfew by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, airlines would on Saturday return to the state used largely as their operational hub. Dana Air, Arik Air and Azman Air have announced resumption of flights. Arik Air said it resumed lean operations on Friday , October 23 to some destinations where there are no curfews. A stamens by Arik spokesman, Adebanji Ola read,”Specifically, the airline said it has started operating flights from its second hub in Abuja to Port Harcourt, Ilorin, Benin, Kano and Yola.” But in another statement, the airline said it would resume flight operations in and out of Murtala Muhammed Airport Ikeja, Lagos from Saturday, October 24, 2020 following the easing of the curfew. Flights across the country will operate as scheduled and passengers are advised to arrive at the airport early to have ample time to complete boarding formalities. Spokesman of the airline, Ola Adebanji in a statement said customers who could not use their tickets during the period of the curfew can modify such tickets at no extra cost. The management of Arik Air thanked customers for their understanding while the cancellation of flights lasted. Dana Air on its part announced a resumption of full operations from October 24 stating that all tickets within the period of the curfew remain valid and can be rescheduled free. A notification from Dana Air read: “Following our earlier announcement on cancellation, we are pleased to inform you that we will resume full flight operations from tomorrow the 24th of October 2020. “All tickets within the period of the curfew remain valid and can be rescheduled for free by sending an email to contact@flydanaair.com or a chat to our WhatsApp number 07051190363 “Once again our heart goes out to our brothers and sisters who lost lives and properties during the protest.” Azman Air has also announced commencement of its Lagos and Benin schedule which was shut due to the pandemonium in those states. The airline in a notification said it will start from Sunday, October 25, 2020 and would reschedule tickets on flights at no extra cost to the passengers. Domestic airlines have announced resumption of flights to and from the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos 48 hours after they cancelled flights to the nation’s commercial capital following the curfew imposed by the state government. With the partial lifting of the curfew by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, airlines would on Saturday return to the state used largely as their operational hub. Dana Air, Arik Air and Azman Air have announced resumption of flights. Arik Air said it resumed lean operations on Friday , October 23 to some destinations where there are no curfews. A stamens by Arik spokesman, Adebanji Ola read,”Specifically, the airline said it has started operating flights from its second hub in Abuja to Port Harcourt, Ilorin, Benin, Kano and Yola.” But in another statement, the airline said it would resume flight operations in and out of Murtala Muhammed Airport Ikeja, Lagos from Saturday, October 24, 2020 following the easing of the curfew. Flights across the country will operate as scheduled and passengers are advised to arrive at the airport early to have ample time to complete boarding formalities. Spokesman of the airline, Ola Adebanji in a statement said customers who could not use their tickets during the period of the curfew can modify such tickets at no extra cost. The management of Arik Air thanked customers for their understanding while the cancellation of flights lasted. Dana Air on its part announced a resumption of full operations from October 24 stating that all tickets within the period of the curfew remain valid and can be rescheduled free. A notification from Dana Air read: “Following our earlier announcement on cancellation, we are pleased to inform you that we will resume full flight operations from tomorrow the 24th of October 2020. “All tickets within the period of the curfew remain valid and can be rescheduled for free by sending an email to contact@flydanaair.com or a chat to our WhatsApp number 07051190363 “Once again our heart goes out to our brothers and sisters who lost lives and properties during the protest.” Azman Air has also announced commencement of its Lagos and Benin schedule which was shut due to the pandemonium in those states. The airline in a notification said it will start from Sunday, October 25, 2020 and would reschedule tickets on flights at no extra cost to the passengers.