Some members of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the House of Representatives on Wednesday protested the defection of two of their colleagues to the All Progressives Congress (APC). They protested after the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, read the two letters written and addressed to the House by the two defecting lawmakers at the plenary. The defecting lawmakers are; Rep. Ephraim Nwuzi (PDP, Rivers) representing Etche/Omuma Federal Constituency of Rivers State and Rep. David Abel (PDP, Taraba) representing Gashaka/Kurmi/Sardauna Federal Constituency of Taraba State. The members in their separate letters disclosed that they had consulted their constituents and other stakeholders before decamping. They further disclosed that they were also partly motivated by Gbajabiamila’s charisma and quality leadership. However, immediately after the letters were read, the Minority Leader of the House, Rep. Ndudi Elumelu (PDP-Delta), said the said defection was an “assumed defection” as “there is no division in the PDP.’’ Citing relevant sections of the constitution, he demanded that the seats of the defecting members be declared vacant by the speaker. The House Deputy Minority Leader, Rep. Toby Okechukwu (PDP-Enugu), said citing the charisma of the speaker by the lawmakers as the reason for their defection instead of the provisions of the constitution is not valid. Supporting his colleagues, Rep. Kingsley Chinda (PDP-Rivers), drew the attention of the speaker to the Supreme Court ruling of 2007 that says any member who defects for any reason other than division in the party should vacate his seat. Responding, the speaker reminded the PDP caucus members that he was once a minority leader in the house and many members of his party defected to the then ruling PDP. According to him, Section 68 of the constitution states that the seats of such members should be declared vacant and asked if he should declare them vacant. The Speaker informed the PDP caucus that some members of the party were yet to attend any sitting since the commencement of the 9th Assembly. However, Elumelu challenged Gbajabiamila’s claim on the non-attendance of plenary by some PDP members. He said the Clerk of the House should be directed to provide the register to confirm the position of the speaker on the absence of PDP lawmakers. Ruling on the matter, Gbajabiamila said the arguments presented by the PDP lawmakers were noted and taken.  Some members of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the House of Representatives on Wednesday protested the defection of two of their colleagues to the All Progressives Congress (APC). They protested after the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, read the two letters written and addressed to the House by the two defecting lawmakers at the plenary. The defecting lawmakers are; Rep. Ephraim Nwuzi (PDP, Rivers) representing Etche/Omuma Federal Constituency of Rivers State and Rep. David Abel (PDP, Taraba) representing Gashaka/Kurmi/Sardauna Federal Constituency of Taraba State. The members in their separate letters disclosed that they had consulted their constituents and other stakeholders before decamping. They further disclosed that they were also partly motivated by Gbajabiamila’s charisma and quality leadership. However, immediately after the letters were read, the Minority Leader of the House, Rep. Ndudi Elumelu (PDP-Delta), said the said defection was an “assumed defection” as “there is no division in the PDP.’’ Citing relevant sections of the constitution, he demanded that the seats of the defecting members be declared vacant by the speaker. The House Deputy Minority Leader, Rep. Toby Okechukwu (PDP-Enugu), said citing the charisma of the speaker by the lawmakers as the reason for their defection instead of the provisions of the constitution is not valid. Supporting his colleagues, Rep. Kingsley Chinda (PDP-Rivers), drew the attention of the speaker to the Supreme Court ruling of 2007 that says any member who defects for any reason other than division in the party should vacate his seat. Responding, the speaker reminded the PDP caucus members that he was once a minority leader in the house and many members of his party defected to the then ruling PDP. According to him, Section 68 of the constitution states that the seats of such members should be declared vacant and asked if he should declare them vacant. The Speaker informed the PDP caucus that some members of the party were yet to attend any sitting since the commencement of the 9th Assembly. However, Elumelu challenged Gbajabiamila’s claim on the non-attendance of plenary by some PDP members. He said the Clerk of the House should be directed to provide the register to confirm the position of the speaker on the absence of PDP lawmakers. Ruling on the matter, Gbajabiamila said the arguments presented by the PDP lawmakers were noted and taken. 