The Chairman of Kuje Area Council, Alhaji Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, has cautioned the newly appointed Secretary of the Local Education Authority (LEA) of the council, Yunusa Zakara Kabbi, against using his position as a money-making venture. Alhaji Abdullahi, who spoke during the swearing in ceremony at the council’s conference hall on Wednesday said the inauguration of the new LEA scribe was in line with the provision of the Universal Basic Education Board (UBEB) Act. He said the appointment and removal of an LEA secretary was the prerogative of the area council chairman. “When we came in as an administration, there was pressure on us to fire the former Education Secretary, Mr. Bulus Danladi, even before the expiration of his tenure because of political differences, but we saw that as inconsequential,” he said. He further said Kabbi’s appointment was on merit and based on the recommendation of the selection committee. The chairman disclosed that the council had put a mechanism in place to restructure and reposition the administrative structure and education management of the LEA. In his acceptance speech, Kabbi promised to discharge his duties efficiently without fear or favour, while imploring staff under his watch to work for the effective management of the education sector in the council. The Chairman of Kuje Area Council, Alhaji Abdullahi Suleiman Sabo, has cautioned the newly appointed Secretary of the Local Education Authority (LEA) of the council, Yunusa Zakara Kabbi, against using his position as a money-making venture. Alhaji Abdullahi, who spoke during the swearing in ceremony at the council’s conference hall on Wednesday said the inauguration of the new LEA scribe was in line with the provision of the Universal Basic Education Board (UBEB) Act. He said the appointment and removal of an LEA secretary was the prerogative of the area council chairman. “When we came in as an administration, there was pressure on us to fire the former Education Secretary, Mr. Bulus Danladi, even before the expiration of his tenure because of political differences, but we saw that as inconsequential,” he said. He further said Kabbi’s appointment was on merit and based on the recommendation of the selection committee. The chairman disclosed that the council had put a mechanism in place to restructure and reposition the administrative structure and education management of the LEA. In his acceptance speech, Kabbi promised to discharge his duties efficiently without fear or favour, while imploring staff under his watch to work for the effective management of the education sector in the council.