The management of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has urged its members of staff not to panic over a reported looming shake up on the company’s structure. In a memo sighted by our reporter, the management however confirmed to the staff members that some decisions were reached in the last sitting of the company’s board regarding the expiring senior management contracts. Daily Trust reported last weekend that there are strong indications of a shakeup at the Distribution Company (DisCo) that could affect some management officials. The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) sits on the board on behalf of the federal government’s 40 percent stake in it. Some of the affected management officials may have to vacate their positions between October 2020 and January 2021, it was learnt. However, in the latest memo of AEDC, the Managing Director and CEO of AEDC, Dr. Ernest Mupwaya, said, there was no insinuated board dissolution. “The board is as usual, actively engaged in ensuring that the company is governed in a manner that is responsive to the operating environment and in this regard reached some decisions during its last sitting including the treatment of expiring senior management contracts. “The report in the newspaper however, contains significant inaccuracies and all AEDC personnel are urged to exercise discernment in consuming this information.” It further said consistent with the company value of transparency, employees will be comprehensively updated on all developments affecting AEDC soon, urging them not to panic. BPE was yet to respond to Daily Trust enquiries on this.  The management of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has urged its members of staff not to panic over a reported looming shake up on the company’s structure. In a memo sighted by our reporter, the management however confirmed to the staff members that some decisions were reached in the last sitting of the company’s board regarding the expiring senior management contracts. Daily Trust reported last weekend that there are strong indications of a shakeup at the Distribution Company (DisCo) that could affect some management officials. The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) sits on the board on behalf of the federal government’s 40 percent stake in it. Some of the affected management officials may have to vacate their positions between October 2020 and January 2021, it was learnt. However, in the latest memo of AEDC, the Managing Director and CEO of AEDC, Dr. Ernest Mupwaya, said, there was no insinuated board dissolution. “The board is as usual, actively engaged in ensuring that the company is governed in a manner that is responsive to the operating environment and in this regard reached some decisions during its last sitting including the treatment of expiring senior management contracts. “The report in the newspaper however, contains significant inaccuracies and all AEDC personnel are urged to exercise discernment in consuming this information.” It further said consistent with the company value of transparency, employees will be comprehensively updated on all developments affecting AEDC soon, urging them not to panic. BPE was yet to respond to Daily Trust enquiries on this. 