Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), on Saturday, revealed that over 35, 000 people in Kano State would benefit from its Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) survival fund, which targeted 333, 000 MSMEs across the federation. This was disclosed by the Director General and Chief Executive Officer of SMEDAN, Dr Dikko Umar Radda, during a stakeholder’s town hall meeting held in Kano State. According to him, Kano State stands to benefit in all the three categories of the MSME survival fund under the federal government’s Nigeria Economic Sustainability plan. He added that, so far, Kano State is leading in the ongoing registration processes of beneficiaries, stressing that the whole processes is being carried out in a transparent manner. He urged all stakeholders to sensitize their members on the processes as well as notify them that no charges or fees are required. In his address, Director General, Cottage Trades and Streets Hawking office of the Executive Governor of Kano State, Alhaji Uba Danzainab, reaffirmed Kano state government’s commitment to the success of the project. He added that series of public enlightenment campaigns have been conducted and that the move had been yielding positive results as many were making efforts to benefit from the federal government economic intervention plan. Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), on Saturday, revealed that over 35, 000 people in Kano State would benefit from its Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) survival fund, which targeted 333, 000 MSMEs across the federation. This was disclosed by the Director General and Chief Executive Officer of SMEDAN, Dr Dikko Umar Radda, during a stakeholder’s town hall meeting held in Kano State. According to him, Kano State stands to benefit in all the three categories of the MSME survival fund under the federal government’s Nigeria Economic Sustainability plan. He added that, so far, Kano State is leading in the ongoing registration processes of beneficiaries, stressing that the whole processes is being carried out in a transparent manner. He urged all stakeholders to sensitize their members on the processes as well as notify them that no charges or fees are required. In his address, Director General, Cottage Trades and Streets Hawking office of the Executive Governor of Kano State, Alhaji Uba Danzainab, reaffirmed Kano state government’s commitment to the success of the project. He added that series of public enlightenment campaigns have been conducted and that the move had been yielding positive results as many were making efforts to benefit from the federal government economic intervention plan.