Globacom has introduced a new tariff tagged Berekete, which avails customers voice and data benefits whenever they recharge their Glo lines with a minimum of N100. The company revealed at the unveiling of the tariff plan to journalists and other stakeholders in Lagos on Tuesday, that the plan is open to new and existing prepaid customers and accommodates customers’ browsing and talking desires from a single recharge. “We are continually seeking new ways to add value to the lives of our esteemed customers. This is one of such ways, and we can assure our customers that we will not relent. Our pledge is that we will continue to meet and exceed their expectations,” Globacom Regional Manager, Retail, Lagos, Mr. Abdulrazak Ande said. Globacom added that any new subscriber who  successfully  activates his/her lines, registers  the SIM and  recharges with a minimum of N100 to  make a first call, will get  a welcome bonus of N600. “N400 out of the N600 will be for calls to all networks, while the balance of N200 is converted to 200MB of data. “Any subscriber on the Berekete plan also enjoys access to a whopping 700 percent bonus on every recharge to call all networks and to browse the Internet. They can therefore enjoy as much as N20,000 voice bonus and 5GB data bonus from a single recharge, depending on the denomination of recharge,” Ande further posited. Similarly, every new subscriber will get up to 100% extra data volumes on all data plan purchases between N50 and N10,000.  The offer is available for the first four months of joining the network. Globacom has introduced a new tariff tagged Berekete, which avails customers voice and data benefits whenever they recharge their Glo lines with a minimum of N100. The company revealed at the unveiling of the tariff plan to journalists and other stakeholders in Lagos on Tuesday, that the plan is open to new and existing prepaid customers and accommodates customers’ browsing and talking desires from a single recharge. “We are continually seeking new ways to add value to the lives of our esteemed customers. This is one of such ways, and we can assure our customers that we will not relent. Our pledge is that we will continue to meet and exceed their expectations,” Globacom Regional Manager, Retail, Lagos, Mr. Abdulrazak Ande said. Globacom added that any new subscriber who  successfully  activates his/her lines, registers  the SIM and  recharges with a minimum of N100 to  make a first call, will get  a welcome bonus of N600. “N400 out of the N600 will be for calls to all networks, while the balance of N200 is converted to 200MB of data. “Any subscriber on the Berekete plan also enjoys access to a whopping 700 percent bonus on every recharge to call all networks and to browse the Internet. They can therefore enjoy as much as N20,000 voice bonus and 5GB data bonus from a single recharge, depending on the denomination of recharge,” Ande further posited. Similarly, every new subscriber will get up to 100% extra data volumes on all data plan purchases between N50 and N10,000.  The offer is available for the first four months of joining the network.