The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders’ Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has reiterated its commitment to checkmate activities of infiltrators and criminals who disguise as herders to wreck havoc in South East. MACBAN South East Chairman, Alhaji Gidado Siddiki said this in a statement on Tuesday in Enugu. Siddiki said that the move was aimed at engendering a peaceful relationship as well as winning the confidence and understanding of members in host communities. He said that the association had ensured that the herders in their different localities were regularly briefed on how to improve on the relationship with their host government and communities. “We are encouraged by the commitment of the government and a good number of the people of the South East in fostering harmonious relationship with the herders. “We shall continue to canvass for best practices in cattle rearing among our people to stem frictions with the natives,” he said. Siddiki said that the association also frowned at allowing underage children to tend cattle in public places and would not hesitate to expose any herder whose acts were suggestive of crime. “This will go a long way in distancing MACBAN from the blanket condemnation it frequently suffers most times criminals attack innocent citizens. “Our children should be encouraged to go to school and not allowed to tend cattle in public spaces but if they must be out rearing, they must be duly guided by adults in their company,” he said. He said that the association had outlawed night grazing as it gave room for possible damage to farms and other facilities. “We, however, plead with the states government in the zone to allow movement of cattle on the highways at night. “While we consider other more viable alternatives for moving our herds of cattle. “This is without prejudice to the inalienable rights and safety of other road users in those hours. We shall continue to give our people proper orientation to improved cattle control on such night transit,” he said. Siddiki said that MACBAN shared in the responsibility of building bridges of understanding and cohesion between the North and the South East. “We shall continue to warmly publicise the hospitality we enjoy here in spite of our cultural differences,” he said. “With sincerity of purpose among leaders, institutions and government, the harmony that will guarantee stability in the polity will be attained,” he said. (NAN) The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders’ Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has reiterated its commitment to checkmate activities of infiltrators and criminals who disguise as herders to wreck havoc in South East. MACBAN South East Chairman, Alhaji Gidado Siddiki said this in a statement on Tuesday in Enugu. Siddiki said that the move was aimed at engendering a peaceful relationship as well as winning the confidence and understanding of members in host communities. He said that the association had ensured that the herders in their different localities were regularly briefed on how to improve on the relationship with their host government and communities. “We are encouraged by the commitment of the government and a good number of the people of the South East in fostering harmonious relationship with the herders. “We shall continue to canvass for best practices in cattle rearing among our people to stem frictions with the natives,” he said. Siddiki said that the association also frowned at allowing underage children to tend cattle in public places and would not hesitate to expose any herder whose acts were suggestive of crime. “This will go a long way in distancing MACBAN from the blanket condemnation it frequently suffers most times criminals attack innocent citizens. “Our children should be encouraged to go to school and not allowed to tend cattle in public spaces but if they must be out rearing, they must be duly guided by adults in their company,” he said. He said that the association had outlawed night grazing as it gave room for possible damage to farms and other facilities. “We, however, plead with the states government in the zone to allow movement of cattle on the highways at night. “While we consider other more viable alternatives for moving our herds of cattle. “This is without prejudice to the inalienable rights and safety of other road users in those hours. We shall continue to give our people proper orientation to improved cattle control on such night transit,” he said. Siddiki said that MACBAN shared in the responsibility of building bridges of understanding and cohesion between the North and the South East. “We shall continue to warmly publicise the hospitality we enjoy here in spite of our cultural differences,” he said. “With sincerity of purpose among leaders, institutions and government, the harmony that will guarantee stability in the polity will be attained,” he said. (NAN)