The Governor Mai Mala Bani-led Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee is under a 14-day ultimatum to roll out a programme of activities for the party’s national convention where a new crop of National Working Committee (NWC) members would emerge. The Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC was dissolved by the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) in June, 2020, following alleged abuse of office. NEC also constituted the Buni-led caretaker committee to run the party and organise a national convention within six months. But four months into the committee’s timeframe, it has not officially communicated its plans for the convention, giving room for speculation of a possible tenure extension. Addressing a press conference on Monday, in Abuja, some stalwarts under the aegis of Concerned APC Members led by the group’s Spokesman, Abdullahi Dauda, gave the Caretaker committee two weeks within which to roll out a programme for the convention. They also asked President Muhammadu Buhari to call the committee to order. “We are aware that the composition of the committee is illegal and alien to our party’s constitution abnitio and we are aware some members are in court already as regards that anomaly. “But due to our respect for Mr. President, we allowed the process as a child of necessity and supported it, but the present action and body language of the committee necessitated our press conference today. “Governor Buni is elected to govern the good people of Yobe state not to jettison his constitutional responsibility and be arranging a sit-tight regime in the party. “Why were the caretaker members and all the governors not present at Edo rallies if they had not compromised the election? “We are giving the Caretaker committee 14 days ultimatum to roll out plan of action/timetable for the party’s December elective convention, or face mass demonstration of party members nationwide. “That a timetable leading to a hitch-free convention be released within the next 14 days. That the Caretaker Committee should halt the proposed registration of fresh members and allow the next NWC members to carry out such assignments,” they said. But in a swift reaction, the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena said the ultimatum does not help in resolving the issue. “They don’t even have the right to issue ultimatum. There is no need of giving ultimatum. If they have any option or solution to fast-track whatosever their demand is, let them come to the Secretariat so that we can listen to them,” he said. The Governor Mai Mala Bani-led Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee is under a 14-day ultimatum to roll out a programme of activities for the party’s national convention where a new crop of National Working Committee (NWC) members would emerge. The Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC was dissolved by the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) in June, 2020, following alleged abuse of office. NEC also constituted the Buni-led caretaker committee to run the party and organise a national convention within six months. But four months into the committee’s timeframe, it has not officially communicated its plans for the convention, giving room for speculation of a possible tenure extension. Addressing a press conference on Monday, in Abuja, some stalwarts under the aegis of Concerned APC Members led by the group’s Spokesman, Abdullahi Dauda, gave the Caretaker committee two weeks within which to roll out a programme for the convention. They also asked President Muhammadu Buhari to call the committee to order. “We are aware that the composition of the committee is illegal and alien to our party’s constitution abnitio and we are aware some members are in court already as regards that anomaly. “But due to our respect for Mr. President, we allowed the process as a child of necessity and supported it, but the present action and body language of the committee necessitated our press conference today. “Governor Buni is elected to govern the good people of Yobe state not to jettison his constitutional responsibility and be arranging a sit-tight regime in the party. “Why were the caretaker members and all the governors not present at Edo rallies if they had not compromised the election? “We are giving the Caretaker committee 14 days ultimatum to roll out plan of action/timetable for the party’s December elective convention, or face mass demonstration of party members nationwide. “That a timetable leading to a hitch-free convention be released within the next 14 days. That the Caretaker Committee should halt the proposed registration of fresh members and allow the next NWC members to carry out such assignments,” they said. But in a swift reaction, the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena said the ultimatum does not help in resolving the issue. “They don’t even have the right to issue ultimatum. There is no need of giving ultimatum. If they have any option or solution to fast-track whatosever their demand is, let them come to the Secretariat so that we can listen to them,” he said.