The Minister of State for FCT, Hajiya Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, has announced the donation of two speed boats to Dafa, a riverine community in Kwali Area Council. She made the announcement on Friday, while presenting relief materials to flood victims of Dafa, Tungan-Sarki, Tungan-Guli and Damakusa communities of the council. She said the donation of relief materials was a demonstration of responsibility on the part of government, noting that no amount of relief items would replace the lives of those that died in the flood. Hajiya Ramatu reiterated her earlier warning to residents of the FCT to desist from building houses on waterways, saying no responsible leader wants to see or hear that a community under his/her domain was inflicted by hardship – either by natural or manmade disasters. Receiving the items on behalf of the council chairman, Danladi Chiya, the secretary of the council, Alhaji Bako Pai, commended the minister for the donation, saying the council would ensure that the affected victims get the items. The items donated included 100 cartons of noodles, 100 bags of 10kg rice, 100 bags of millet, 100 pieces of wrappers, 100-10 kg of sorghum, 100 cartons of spaghetti and 100 cartons of semovita. Meanwhile, the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, has urged the new FCT Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Mr. Mathias Ohiemi, to dedicate his time to the fight against crime and criminality in the territory. Malam Bello gave this charge when he received the new commandant on a courtesy visit to the FCTA. According to a statement by the Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Anthony Ogunleye, the minister pledged the continued support of the FCT Administration to the NSCDC. Also present to receive the new commandant were the Chief of Staff to the Minister, Malam Bashir Mai-Bornu; Executive Secretary, FCDA, Engr. Umar Gambo Jibrin; and the Director, Human Resource Management, Malam Bashir Mohammed. The Minister of State for FCT, Hajiya Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, has announced the donation of two speed boats to Dafa, a riverine community in Kwali Area Council. She made the announcement on Friday, while presenting relief materials to flood victims of Dafa, Tungan-Sarki, Tungan-Guli and Damakusa communities of the council. She said the donation of relief materials was a demonstration of responsibility on the part of government, noting that no amount of relief items would replace the lives of those that died in the flood. Hajiya Ramatu reiterated her earlier warning to residents of the FCT to desist from building houses on waterways, saying no responsible leader wants to see or hear that a community under his/her domain was inflicted by hardship – either by natural or manmade disasters. Receiving the items on behalf of the council chairman, Danladi Chiya, the secretary of the council, Alhaji Bako Pai, commended the minister for the donation, saying the council would ensure that the affected victims get the items. The items donated included 100 cartons of noodles, 100 bags of 10kg rice, 100 bags of millet, 100 pieces of wrappers, 100-10 kg of sorghum, 100 cartons of spaghetti and 100 cartons of semovita. Meanwhile, the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, has urged the new FCT Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Mr. Mathias Ohiemi, to dedicate his time to the fight against crime and criminality in the territory. Malam Bello gave this charge when he received the new commandant on a courtesy visit to the FCTA. According to a statement by the Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Anthony Ogunleye, the minister pledged the continued support of the FCT Administration to the NSCDC. Also present to receive the new commandant were the Chief of Staff to the Minister, Malam Bashir Mai-Bornu; Executive Secretary, FCDA, Engr. Umar Gambo Jibrin; and the Director, Human Resource Management, Malam Bashir Mohammed.