The African Development Bank (AfDB) has opened a $120,000 AgriPitch competition for youths aged 18 to 35. They will also get a slot in the competition’s business development boot camp, an audience of an online panel of experts and investors, the bank said in a statement on Thursday. The AgriPitch competition’s entry which closes today (Friday) is open to youth agripreneurs across Africa. The youth would be invited to showcase their agribusiness startup plans and compete with agribusiness plans, as well as receive post-event mentoring and training, the bank said. The AgriPitch competition is part of AfDB’s fourth African Youth Agripreneurs Forum (AYAF) – one of the continent’s most exciting platforms for African youth in the agriculture start-up scene – to be held online for the first time on 3 -17 November, 2020. “The African Youth Agripreneurs Forum and AgriPitch competition have always been a high-energy gathering for young entrepreneurs in agriculture to meet, share experiences and work the room for that next big investment,” said Edson Mpyisi, coordinator of the bank’s Enable Youth Programme, responsible for the event. “AYAF and AgriPitch aim to provide the knowledge, confidence, financing and networking boosts to grow their start-ups and make a greater impact,” said Bank Director for Agriculture and Agro-Industry, Martin Fregene.  The African Development Bank (AfDB) has opened a $120,000 AgriPitch competition for youths aged 18 to 35. They will also get a slot in the competition’s business development boot camp, an audience of an online panel of experts and investors, the bank said in a statement on Thursday. The AgriPitch competition’s entry which closes today (Friday) is open to youth agripreneurs across Africa. The youth would be invited to showcase their agribusiness startup plans and compete with agribusiness plans, as well as receive post-event mentoring and training, the bank said. The AgriPitch competition is part of AfDB’s fourth African Youth Agripreneurs Forum (AYAF) – one of the continent’s most exciting platforms for African youth in the agriculture start-up scene – to be held online for the first time on 3 -17 November, 2020. “The African Youth Agripreneurs Forum and AgriPitch competition have always been a high-energy gathering for young entrepreneurs in agriculture to meet, share experiences and work the room for that next big investment,” said Edson Mpyisi, coordinator of the bank’s Enable Youth Programme, responsible for the event. “AYAF and AgriPitch aim to provide the knowledge, confidence, financing and networking boosts to grow their start-ups and make a greater impact,” said Bank Director for Agriculture and Agro-Industry, Martin Fregene. 