Egypt intends to help Mali restore its membership in the AU after the organisation blocked the country’s participation due to the August military coup, Foreign Minister, Sameh Shoukry said. Shoukry said this in a phone call with his Malian counterpart, Zeini Moulaye, when congratulating him for assuming the office. On Aug. 18, a group of Malian soldiers initiated a rebellion at a military base near the capital city of Bamako. They detained then-President Ibrahim Keita and several other high-ranking governmental officials. A day after the mutiny, the AU suspended the country’s membership in the alliance until the constitutional order restored. “Egypt has expressed intent to provide Mali with all possible assistance in the coming period to restore its place in the AU at the earliest opportunity,’’ Shouky said. The senior Egyptian diplomat promised Moulaye to support Bamako in coping with current issues, as well as fighting against terrorism by means of training courses held by Cairo for the countries of the African region of Sahel. The military approved the basic law and road map for the 18-month transitional period on Sept. 12 after holding consultations with political and civil society figures. Ex-Defence Minister, Ba N’Daou, has been appointed as the president for the transition period and former Foreign Minister, Moctar Ouane, as the new Prime Minister. Another regional bloc that cooperates with Mali – the 15-nation Western African ECOWAS bloc – announced on Oct. 6 the lifting of sanctions imposed on Bamako in the wake of the August rebellion. (Sputnik/NAN) Egypt intends to help Mali restore its membership in the AU after the organisation blocked the country’s participation due to the August military coup, Foreign Minister, Sameh Shoukry said. Shoukry said this in a phone call with his Malian counterpart, Zeini Moulaye, when congratulating him for assuming the office. On Aug. 18, a group of Malian soldiers initiated a rebellion at a military base near the capital city of Bamako. They detained then-President Ibrahim Keita and several other high-ranking governmental officials. A day after the mutiny, the AU suspended the country’s membership in the alliance until the constitutional order restored. “Egypt has expressed intent to provide Mali with all possible assistance in the coming period to restore its place in the AU at the earliest opportunity,’’ Shouky said. The senior Egyptian diplomat promised Moulaye to support Bamako in coping with current issues, as well as fighting against terrorism by means of training courses held by Cairo for the countries of the African region of Sahel. The military approved the basic law and road map for the 18-month transitional period on Sept. 12 after holding consultations with political and civil society figures. Ex-Defence Minister, Ba N’Daou, has been appointed as the president for the transition period and former Foreign Minister, Moctar Ouane, as the new Prime Minister. Another regional bloc that cooperates with Mali – the 15-nation Western African ECOWAS bloc – announced on Oct. 6 the lifting of sanctions imposed on Bamako in the wake of the August rebellion. (Sputnik/NAN)