Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun on Sunday said his administration would complete all abandoned projects embarked on by his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, insisting that the projects were funded with taxpayers’ money. The governor assured that no part of the state would be neglected in the distribution of infrastructure, saying he had decided to make people the centrepiece of his administration Abiodun, while inspecting some of the ongoing road projects in Sagamu, Abeokuta-South and Odeda Local Government Areas of the state, said he had mobilised contractors back to the sites of all the abandoned road projects. Some of the roads inspected are; the Oba Erinwole road in Sagamu, Kuto flyover and Elite road in Abeokuta; and Fajol-Osara-Gbonagun roads in Odeda Local Government Area. The governor noted that the issue of good road network could not be over-emphasised as they open up the state to socioeconomic activities and promote the welfare of the citizenry. He said, “I will not leave any project abandoned by previous government. Those they funded or abandoned midway will be completed by us.” The governor noted that Oba Erinwole road had become a death trap for its users, “yet it is an important road that serves several industries and also links the Sagamu-Ore-Benin expressway.” The Babaloja of Fajol Market, Chief Maruf Adewale Folarin said the Fajol-Osara-Gbonagun Road has been in a deplorable condition for more than 31 years. Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun on Sunday said his administration would complete all abandoned projects embarked on by his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, insisting that the projects were funded with taxpayers’ money. The governor assured that no part of the state would be neglected in the distribution of infrastructure, saying he had decided to make people the centrepiece of his administration Abiodun, while inspecting some of the ongoing road projects in Sagamu, Abeokuta-South and Odeda Local Government Areas of the state, said he had mobilised contractors back to the sites of all the abandoned road projects. Some of the roads inspected are; the Oba Erinwole road in Sagamu, Kuto flyover and Elite road in Abeokuta; and Fajol-Osara-Gbonagun roads in Odeda Local Government Area. The governor noted that the issue of good road network could not be over-emphasised as they open up the state to socioeconomic activities and promote the welfare of the citizenry. He said, “I will not leave any project abandoned by previous government. Those they funded or abandoned midway will be completed by us.” The governor noted that Oba Erinwole road had become a death trap for its users, “yet it is an important road that serves several industries and also links the Sagamu-Ore-Benin expressway.” The Babaloja of Fajol Market, Chief Maruf Adewale Folarin said the Fajol-Osara-Gbonagun Road has been in a deplorable condition for more than 31 years.