The Public Transport Owners of Nigeria Association (PTONA) has called on the Federal Government of Nigeria through the Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki, to fast-track quick disbursement of the N10 billion fund approved for transporters. PTONA comprises over 150 registered interstate and cross-border transport operators in the country. The governing council of the association at its meeting held in Lagos said the call has become necessary due to a long delay in disbursing the palliative. It would be recalled that at the heat of the COVID-19 pandemic, interstate and cross-border transport operators were directed to suspend operations till further notice. During the period, PTONA said its members lost billions of naira in revenue. The council also evaluated the impact of COVID-19 pandemic and decried the armed robbery attacks and kidnaps on the roads nationwide. It noted that during the lockdown spanning 98 days, it was only its members that were on negative income as there was total ban on interstate movement across the country. According to it, the depletion of its fleets of buses and the very high cost of maintaining existing fleets due to social distancing and safety protocol of COVID-19 on the buses have taken a toll on its operation. The Public Transport Owners of Nigeria Association (PTONA) has called on the Federal Government of Nigeria through the Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki, to fast-track quick disbursement of the N10 billion fund approved for transporters. PTONA comprises over 150 registered interstate and cross-border transport operators in the country. The governing council of the association at its meeting held in Lagos said the call has become necessary due to a long delay in disbursing the palliative. It would be recalled that at the heat of the COVID-19 pandemic, interstate and cross-border transport operators were directed to suspend operations till further notice. During the period, PTONA said its members lost billions of naira in revenue. The council also evaluated the impact of COVID-19 pandemic and decried the armed robbery attacks and kidnaps on the roads nationwide. It noted that during the lockdown spanning 98 days, it was only its members that were on negative income as there was total ban on interstate movement across the country. According to it, the depletion of its fleets of buses and the very high cost of maintaining existing fleets due to social distancing and safety protocol of COVID-19 on the buses have taken a toll on its operation.