The leadership of the Coalition of All Progressives Congress Youth Leaders (C-APC-YL) and Beneficiaries of Presidential Amnesty Programme have protested the appointments of some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members by the Interim Administrator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP), Col. Dikio Milland Dixon (retd). Speaking at a press conference on Wednesday in Abuja, the youths said that the Dixon’s appointment of known PDP members, barely two months after his appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari is not in the best interest of the APC and the amnesty programme. The President of C-APC-YLs, Emmanuel Perekeme, who spoke on behalf of other leaders, said the appointments including a younger brother of Dixon and two former allies of ex-governor Henry Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State must be withdrawn immediately. According to him, the appointment of Col. Dikio on August 26, 2020 was received with mixed feelings in the whole region for some reasons, including that he does not understand the strategic and sensitive programme, same way he does not understand the contemporary challenges of the people. He said, “Dikio was not in touch since he left for the United States of America over two decades ago and only returned after his appointment. Unfortunately, we can no longer keep quiet, otherwise things will speedily move from bad to worse because of the way and manner he is currently running the PAP as his personal estate.” He was also accused of indirectly handing over of the Presidential Amnesty Programme office to former Governor Dickson of Bayelsa State “who hates APC and its members with much passion.” Perekeme said, “As we speak, both of them are still very active members of PDP. So, is Col. Dikio saying that there are no APC members in Bayelsa State that are qualified to be appointed to those sensitive offices? “Col. Milland Dixon Dikio’s total disregard for elders, leaders, stakeholders and the real owners of the program is provoking. It is unbelievable that he has spent close to two months in office but he has never deemed it necessary to go to the Niger Delta to meet with traditional, religious, youths and ex-Agitators who are the real owners of the program. “The Presidential Amnesty Office came as a result of the sweat and blood of our people and it cannot be reduced or turned to a family affair. Col. Dikio should act very fast to clear all the students that were not cleared by the Verification Committee in order to save them the pains most of them are currently going through in their respective schools some of which have even thrown our students out. “Col. Dikio should as a matter of urgency draw up meeting schedule to meet with all critical stakeholders in the Niger Delta instead of sitting in the comfort of his air conditioned office in Abuja. Such meetings will help to douse the growing tension in the region. “While we acknowledge the fact that the close allies and aides of former Governor Dickson are also Niger Deltans that are entitled to benefit from the Presidential Amnesty Office, we know that there are competent APC members who can man those very sensitive positions. We therefore demand the immediate disengagement of those aides and engagement of qualified APC members. “Col. Milland Dixon Dikio has shown gross incompetence and lack of understanding of the programme, based on the above we therefore pass a vote of no confidence on him and we demand his immediate sack,” he said. He also reaffirmed their loyalty and commitment to Mr. President and urged the aggrieved youths to remain calm. The leadership of the Coalition of All Progressives Congress Youth Leaders (C-APC-YL) and Beneficiaries of Presidential Amnesty Programme have protested the appointments of some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members by the Interim Administrator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP), Col. Dikio Milland Dixon (retd). Speaking at a press conference on Wednesday in Abuja, the youths said that the Dixon’s appointment of known PDP members, barely two months after his appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari is not in the best interest of the APC and the amnesty programme. The President of C-APC-YLs, Emmanuel Perekeme, who spoke on behalf of other leaders, said the appointments including a younger brother of Dixon and two former allies of ex-governor Henry Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State must be withdrawn immediately. According to him, the appointment of Col. Dikio on August 26, 2020 was received with mixed feelings in the whole region for some reasons, including that he does not understand the strategic and sensitive programme, same way he does not understand the contemporary challenges of the people. He said, “Dikio was not in touch since he left for the United States of America over two decades ago and only returned after his appointment. Unfortunately, we can no longer keep quiet, otherwise things will speedily move from bad to worse because of the way and manner he is currently running the PAP as his personal estate.” He was also accused of indirectly handing over of the Presidential Amnesty Programme office to former Governor Dickson of Bayelsa State “who hates APC and its members with much passion.” Perekeme said, “As we speak, both of them are still very active members of PDP. So, is Col. Dikio saying that there are no APC members in Bayelsa State that are qualified to be appointed to those sensitive offices? “Col. Milland Dixon Dikio’s total disregard for elders, leaders, stakeholders and the real owners of the program is provoking. It is unbelievable that he has spent close to two months in office but he has never deemed it necessary to go to the Niger Delta to meet with traditional, religious, youths and ex-Agitators who are the real owners of the program. “The Presidential Amnesty Office came as a result of the sweat and blood of our people and it cannot be reduced or turned to a family affair. Col. Dikio should act very fast to clear all the students that were not cleared by the Verification Committee in order to save them the pains most of them are currently going through in their respective schools some of which have even thrown our students out. “Col. Dikio should as a matter of urgency draw up meeting schedule to meet with all critical stakeholders in the Niger Delta instead of sitting in the comfort of his air conditioned office in Abuja. Such meetings will help to douse the growing tension in the region. “While we acknowledge the fact that the close allies and aides of former Governor Dickson are also Niger Deltans that are entitled to benefit from the Presidential Amnesty Office, we know that there are competent APC members who can man those very sensitive positions. We therefore demand the immediate disengagement of those aides and engagement of qualified APC members. “Col. Milland Dixon Dikio has shown gross incompetence and lack of understanding of the programme, based on the above we therefore pass a vote of no confidence on him and we demand his immediate sack,” he said. He also reaffirmed their loyalty and commitment to Mr. President and urged the aggrieved youths to remain calm.