United bank for Africa (UBA) has disclosed plans to open additional 25 branches across the country before the end of 2020. The Group Head operations, Alex Alozie disclosed this at a virtual media parley to celebrate Customer Service 2020. Alozie who was reacting to the implication of the various digitisation process of the bank to job security said: “We have opened 6 branches in the last two months and we are committed to opening 25 branches by the end of 2020.” He said the bank is moving in a direction that would ensure that every customer’s needs are met whether by the brick and mortar bank or through digital offerings. “We deployed 100,000 Point of sales terminals within the pandemic to the streets, restaurants and major markets. We have 5000 agents across the country and we did over N50 billion on POS and agency banking and we are sustaining these ecosystems.” The Group Head, Marketing and Customer Experience, Michelle Nwoga said the bank has always been thinking about what matters for its  customers. Nwoga said: “You have to transform internally to be able to deliver value for your customers. We have kicked off a transformation journey that will be able to impact our customers “COVID-19 has changed the way businesses do business and we are very much now a data driven organization.” United bank for Africa (UBA) has disclosed plans to open additional 25 branches across the country before the end of 2020. The Group Head operations, Alex Alozie disclosed this at a virtual media parley to celebrate Customer Service 2020. Alozie who was reacting to the implication of the various digitisation process of the bank to job security said: “We have opened 6 branches in the last two months and we are committed to opening 25 branches by the end of 2020.” He said the bank is moving in a direction that would ensure that every customer’s needs are met whether by the brick and mortar bank or through digital offerings. “We deployed 100,000 Point of sales terminals within the pandemic to the streets, restaurants and major markets. We have 5000 agents across the country and we did over N50 billion on POS and agency banking and we are sustaining these ecosystems.” The Group Head, Marketing and Customer Experience, Michelle Nwoga said the bank has always been thinking about what matters for its  customers. Nwoga said: “You have to transform internally to be able to deliver value for your customers. We have kicked off a transformation journey that will be able to impact our customers “COVID-19 has changed the way businesses do business and we are very much now a data driven organization.”