The Federal Government has urged researchers and technology developers to prioritize the protection of their intellectual property. The Director-General of the National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP), Dr. Dan-Azumi Ibrahim, stated this yesterday in Abuja during a training session for Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Offices (IPTTO) coordinators on automated submission of patent application to NOTAP. He told the participants drawn from universities and research institutions across the country that, “Nations are termed developed because of their technological advancement. Research and development is key in this. No nation will develop without a vibrant research and development culture.” Dr Ibrahim noted that developed nations have perfected how research results are translated into products and services but “unfortunately in this country most of our research and development efforts are still on the shelves. Those that were able to translate into prototypes remain as prototypes.”  The Federal Government has urged researchers and technology developers to prioritize the protection of their intellectual property. The Director-General of the National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP), Dr. Dan-Azumi Ibrahim, stated this yesterday in Abuja during a training session for Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Offices (IPTTO) coordinators on automated submission of patent application to NOTAP. He told the participants drawn from universities and research institutions across the country that, “Nations are termed developed because of their technological advancement. Research and development is key in this. No nation will develop without a vibrant research and development culture.” Dr Ibrahim noted that developed nations have perfected how research results are translated into products and services but “unfortunately in this country most of our research and development efforts are still on the shelves. Those that were able to translate into prototypes remain as prototypes.” 