The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Kano Zonal Command, says it recorded over 1,500 cases on child labour, human trafficking, rape and domestic violence in the past four years. NAPTIP Kano Zonal Command comprises of Bauchi, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina and Jigawa States. The Zonal Commander, Desmond Garba, stated this at the inauguration of a one-day sensitisation exercise on child molestation and human trafficking. Garba said the exercise was organised by NAPTIP in collaboration with a member of the House Representatives, Mustapha Bala-Dawaki (APC- Dawakin Kudu/Warawa). He said the spate of child molestation and human trafficking called for closer collaboration with relevant stakeholders to address the menace. The Commander noted that the sensitisation exercise would enhance awareness creation on the dangers associated  with human trafficking, child labour, rape, domestic violence and other forms of abuse. “Human trafficking is a terrible crime, caused by greed, illiteracy and ignorance. “These factors are commonly found at the grassroot and there is need to sensitise the people on the ills of human trafficking ,” Garba said. The Coordinator urged the participants to educate the people in their respective communities to check the menace. Also speaking, Bala-Dawaki, said that about 800 persons drawn from Dawakin Kudu and Warawa Local Government Areas participated in the exercise. Bala-Dawaki who decried the spate of child labour and human trafficking, reiterated commitment to check the menace. (NAN)  The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Kano Zonal Command, says it recorded over 1,500 cases on child labour, human trafficking, rape and domestic violence in the past four years. NAPTIP Kano Zonal Command comprises of Bauchi, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina and Jigawa States. The Zonal Commander, Desmond Garba, stated this at the inauguration of a one-day sensitisation exercise on child molestation and human trafficking. Garba said the exercise was organised by NAPTIP in collaboration with a member of the House Representatives, Mustapha Bala-Dawaki (APC- Dawakin Kudu/Warawa). He said the spate of child molestation and human trafficking called for closer collaboration with relevant stakeholders to address the menace. The Commander noted that the sensitisation exercise would enhance awareness creation on the dangers associated  with human trafficking, child labour, rape, domestic violence and other forms of abuse. “Human trafficking is a terrible crime, caused by greed, illiteracy and ignorance. “These factors are commonly found at the grassroot and there is need to sensitise the people on the ills of human trafficking ,” Garba said. The Coordinator urged the participants to educate the people in their respective communities to check the menace. Also speaking, Bala-Dawaki, said that about 800 persons drawn from Dawakin Kudu and Warawa Local Government Areas participated in the exercise. Bala-Dawaki who decried the spate of child labour and human trafficking, reiterated commitment to check the menace. (NAN) 