The proposed Truck Transit Parks (TTPs) will attract over N76 billion investments into the Nigerian economy, the Executive Secretary, the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Mr. Hassan Bello has said. The TTPs are being promoted by the NSC across nine states. He gave the indication during a courtesy call on the Executive Secretary/CEO of the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Ms. Yewande Sadiku in her office in Abuja. “We are talking about $200m investments in the TTP cargoes. Already there is the one in Obollo-Afor that we have advertised and a British firm has shown interest. If not for COVID, we would have delivered that project. We also have land in Kogi State, which the state governor had promised to pay all the necessary compensations” he said. He said the economic advantages amongst others include; “the economic advantage is fast delivery of cargo and the regulation of the way we transport goods. Fatigue is responsible for about 70 percent of road accidents so the TTP will enable drivers to take a rest when tired. When we have the facility, it will be compulsory for drivers to rest after six hours of driving. The TTP can also enable us to track our cargo too.” On his mission to NIPC, he said: “The key essence of this visit is to get assistance from the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) and attract investment opportunities to the maritime sector.” Responding, the NIPC CEO, Ms. Sadiku said her agency will provide all the necessary support that will attract investments into the projects being promoted by the NSC.   The proposed Truck Transit Parks (TTPs) will attract over N76 billion investments into the Nigerian economy, the Executive Secretary, the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Mr. Hassan Bello has said. The TTPs are being promoted by the NSC across nine states. He gave the indication during a courtesy call on the Executive Secretary/CEO of the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Ms. Yewande Sadiku in her office in Abuja. “We are talking about $200m investments in the TTP cargoes. Already there is the one in Obollo-Afor that we have advertised and a British firm has shown interest. If not for COVID, we would have delivered that project. We also have land in Kogi State, which the state governor had promised to pay all the necessary compensations” he said. He said the economic advantages amongst others include; “the economic advantage is fast delivery of cargo and the regulation of the way we transport goods. Fatigue is responsible for about 70 percent of road accidents so the TTP will enable drivers to take a rest when tired. When we have the facility, it will be compulsory for drivers to rest after six hours of driving. The TTP can also enable us to track our cargo too.” On his mission to NIPC, he said: “The key essence of this visit is to get assistance from the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) and attract investment opportunities to the maritime sector.” Responding, the NIPC CEO, Ms. Sadiku said her agency will provide all the necessary support that will attract investments into the projects being promoted by the NSC.  