Bauchi State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and 20 members of the state house of assembly on Monday rejected the results of the local government council election conducted at weekend by the state electoral body. The Bauchi State Independent Electoral Commission (BASIEC) through its chairman, Dahiru Tata, had on Sunday declared the candidates of the PDP as winners of the 20 LGAs chairmanship positions and all the 320 councillorships in the state. Those declared winners have been inaugurated by the state governor, Bala Mohammed. The state chairman of the party, Alhaji Uba Nana described the declaration of the PDP candidates as daylight robbery of the people’s mandates. “We reject in totality the purported results and declaration of winners of the local government elections as effected by PDP and BASIEC. “Any person sworn into office based on the unlawful PDP/BASIEC results shall be occupying the seat illegally and without the support of his people,” he said in a statement. Similarly, 20 out of the 30 lawmakers in the assembly have rejected the outcome of the election. In a statement signed by the Majority Leader of the House, Tijjani Mohammed Aliyu, the protesting lawmakers accused security operatives and BASIEC of conniving with the PDP to rig the election. “We wish to assure our teeming supporters that the 20 APC members in the Bauchi State House of Assembly disassociate themselves for the act and so-called election of the local government. “We wish to put in clear terms that this mess created by the PDP cannot be remedied by the local government election tribunal recently constituted to handle the petitions arising from the elections,” they said. Efforts to get the reaction of the spokesman of the Bauchi State Police command, DSP Ahmed Mohammed Wakil, yielded no result as he could not be reached through his mobile phone.  Bauchi State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and 20 members of the state house of assembly on Monday rejected the results of the local government council election conducted at weekend by the state electoral body. The Bauchi State Independent Electoral Commission (BASIEC) through its chairman, Dahiru Tata, had on Sunday declared the candidates of the PDP as winners of the 20 LGAs chairmanship positions and all the 320 councillorships in the state. Those declared winners have been inaugurated by the state governor, Bala Mohammed. The state chairman of the party, Alhaji Uba Nana described the declaration of the PDP candidates as daylight robbery of the people’s mandates. “We reject in totality the purported results and declaration of winners of the local government elections as effected by PDP and BASIEC. “Any person sworn into office based on the unlawful PDP/BASIEC results shall be occupying the seat illegally and without the support of his people,” he said in a statement. Similarly, 20 out of the 30 lawmakers in the assembly have rejected the outcome of the election. In a statement signed by the Majority Leader of the House, Tijjani Mohammed Aliyu, the protesting lawmakers accused security operatives and BASIEC of conniving with the PDP to rig the election. “We wish to assure our teeming supporters that the 20 APC members in the Bauchi State House of Assembly disassociate themselves for the act and so-called election of the local government. “We wish to put in clear terms that this mess created by the PDP cannot be remedied by the local government election tribunal recently constituted to handle the petitions arising from the elections,” they said. Efforts to get the reaction of the spokesman of the Bauchi State Police command, DSP Ahmed Mohammed Wakil, yielded no result as he could not be reached through his mobile phone. 