President Trump has “improved,” according to White House physician Sean Conley, but experienced significant oxygen drops on Friday and Saturday. His doctors said he has had no fever since Friday morning and could be discharged as early as Monday, the Washington Post reports. Conley declined to answer questions about the president’s lungs, including whether there is scarring or whether Trump has pneumonia. Trump said in a video posted Saturday night that he is feeling “much better now” and expects to “be back soon” after being hospitalized with the coronavirus. In a memorandum released by the White House, Trump’s physician said the president has made “substantial progress” and will be closely monitored Sunday at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in between doses of the experimental drug remdesivir. The statements of optimism came after aides and doctors caused a startling amount of confusion about Trump’s health status and the timeline of his treatment and diagnosis, injecting an extraordinary degree of uncertainty into the nation’s understanding of his condition and who may have been exposed. President Trump has “improved,” according to White House physician Sean Conley, but experienced significant oxygen drops on Friday and Saturday. His doctors said he has had no fever since Friday morning and could be discharged as early as Monday, the Washington Post reports. Conley declined to answer questions about the president’s lungs, including whether there is scarring or whether Trump has pneumonia. Trump said in a video posted Saturday night that he is feeling “much better now” and expects to “be back soon” after being hospitalized with the coronavirus. In a memorandum released by the White House, Trump’s physician said the president has made “substantial progress” and will be closely monitored Sunday at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in between doses of the experimental drug remdesivir. The statements of optimism came after aides and doctors caused a startling amount of confusion about Trump’s health status and the timeline of his treatment and diagnosis, injecting an extraordinary degree of uncertainty into the nation’s understanding of his condition and who may have been exposed.