MTN Nigeria through its Revv programme has trained small business owners on the most efficient ways of managing the workforce, the management has said. The Chief Human Resource Officer at MTN Nigeria, Esther Akinnukawe at the training emphasised the importance of business owners building trust with their employees; noting that building trust with employees begins from the hiring process. “If you don’t bring the right people into the organisation, unfortunately, the foundation has not been properly built,” he said. The founder of Kendor Consulting, Adora Ikwuemesi, identified trust as a big factor to retaining staff, saying, there is no relationship when there is no trust. John Obaro, a technology entrepreneur, advised SMEs to pay attention to their relationship with their employees. “Relationship matters. Hire right and relate well with your employees. You need to create a work atmosphere where people are free and relaxed. Building the trust relationship is very important. Get personal with them.” Since its launch in August, over 5,000 entrepreneurs have benefited from the programme, which seeks to provide solutions for SMEs in readjusting their businesses to meet post-COVID-19 economic realities. It adopts a four-pronged approach that includes masterclass sessions, support with productivity tools, access to market and advisory initiatives. MTN aims to train over 10,000 SMEs through the initiative.  MTN Nigeria through its Revv programme has trained small business owners on the most efficient ways of managing the workforce, the management has said. The Chief Human Resource Officer at MTN Nigeria, Esther Akinnukawe at the training emphasised the importance of business owners building trust with their employees; noting that building trust with employees begins from the hiring process. “If you don’t bring the right people into the organisation, unfortunately, the foundation has not been properly built,” he said. The founder of Kendor Consulting, Adora Ikwuemesi, identified trust as a big factor to retaining staff, saying, there is no relationship when there is no trust. John Obaro, a technology entrepreneur, advised SMEs to pay attention to their relationship with their employees. “Relationship matters. Hire right and relate well with your employees. You need to create a work atmosphere where people are free and relaxed. Building the trust relationship is very important. Get personal with them.” Since its launch in August, over 5,000 entrepreneurs have benefited from the programme, which seeks to provide solutions for SMEs in readjusting their businesses to meet post-COVID-19 economic realities. It adopts a four-pronged approach that includes masterclass sessions, support with productivity tools, access to market and advisory initiatives. MTN aims to train over 10,000 SMEs through the initiative. 