As Nigeria marks its 60th Independence anniversary, challenges facing the country in the area of economy, security, religion and others have been blamed on non-patriotism of leadership and followers. Amb. Hassan Tukur, Patron of Unveiling and Rebranding Nigeria Initiative (URNI), who gave this observation on Wednesday noted that patriotism, which many Nigerian citizens lack, is the bedrock for success in every society. Tukur called on every Nigeria to change their mindset towards the nation in order to enhance and strengthen Nigeria’s democracy and a better economy. According to him, despite the negative impression portrayed about some few Nigerians across countries of the world, more Nigerians have also contributed immensely to the growth of many several developmental policies of different economies, as well as creating innovations that had contributed positively to those countries. He said, “Nigerians both in leadership positions and the citizens as a whole, must learn to emulate the culture of patriotism, which is the bedrock for success in every society. “Nigeria is blessed with human and other natural resources that can be harnessed for potential growth and development in all spheres of her existence. “It is, however, pertinent at this juncture, to call on Nigerians at 60, to respond to the call for patriotism and nationalism, which would enhance and strengthen our democracy and a better economy for our dear nation.” As Nigeria marks its 60th Independence anniversary, challenges facing the country in the area of economy, security, religion and others have been blamed on non-patriotism of leadership and followers. Amb. Hassan Tukur, Patron of Unveiling and Rebranding Nigeria Initiative (URNI), who gave this observation on Wednesday noted that patriotism, which many Nigerian citizens lack, is the bedrock for success in every society. Tukur called on every Nigeria to change their mindset towards the nation in order to enhance and strengthen Nigeria’s democracy and a better economy. According to him, despite the negative impression portrayed about some few Nigerians across countries of the world, more Nigerians have also contributed immensely to the growth of many several developmental policies of different economies, as well as creating innovations that had contributed positively to those countries. He said, “Nigerians both in leadership positions and the citizens as a whole, must learn to emulate the culture of patriotism, which is the bedrock for success in every society. “Nigeria is blessed with human and other natural resources that can be harnessed for potential growth and development in all spheres of her existence. “It is, however, pertinent at this juncture, to call on Nigerians at 60, to respond to the call for patriotism and nationalism, which would enhance and strengthen our democracy and a better economy for our dear nation.”