Political parties in Zamfara State have said they have no objection to the renaming of the state assembly complex after the late chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Ibrahim Mallaha Gusau, who died recently. The state governor, Bello Mohammed Matawalle, had last week named the state assembly complex after the late PDP chairman in the state. Matawalle made the announcement when members of the state house of assembly paid him a condolence visit at the government house. He said the decision to name the complex after the late party chair was because of his justice and fair play, not only in politics but in all his endeavours while alive. “Late Ibrahim was humble, just and honourable. He was not the type that accused anyone, but he utilised his energy to bring people together,” Governor Matawalle said. The opposition All Progressives Congress in the state, also said they saw nothing wrong in the naming of the assembly complex after the late PDP chairman. The vice-chairman of the party in the state, Alhaji Sani Gwamna Mayanchi, said they had no objection to that, adding that the PDP family in the state had lost a gentleman. The secretary of National Rescue Movement, Dauda Ahmad Jangeme, said Mallaha was a gentleman. He said there was nothing wrong in immortalising the late PDP chair who had contributed tremendously to the development of the state. “But my only reservation on the immortalisation is that an institution like school or hospital instead, not an office that political leaders use like the assembly complex,” he said. The head of coalition of Civil Society Organisations, Mallam Ibrahim Tudu, however, neither objected nor approved of the state governments’ decision to name the assembly complex after the late PDP chairman. Political parties in Zamfara State have said they have no objection to the renaming of the state assembly complex after the late chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Ibrahim Mallaha Gusau, who died recently. The state governor, Bello Mohammed Matawalle, had last week named the state assembly complex after the late PDP chairman in the state. Matawalle made the announcement when members of the state house of assembly paid him a condolence visit at the government house. He said the decision to name the complex after the late party chair was because of his justice and fair play, not only in politics but in all his endeavours while alive. “Late Ibrahim was humble, just and honourable. He was not the type that accused anyone, but he utilised his energy to bring people together,” Governor Matawalle said. The opposition All Progressives Congress in the state, also said they saw nothing wrong in the naming of the assembly complex after the late PDP chairman. The vice-chairman of the party in the state, Alhaji Sani Gwamna Mayanchi, said they had no objection to that, adding that the PDP family in the state had lost a gentleman. The secretary of National Rescue Movement, Dauda Ahmad Jangeme, said Mallaha was a gentleman. He said there was nothing wrong in immortalising the late PDP chair who had contributed tremendously to the development of the state. “But my only reservation on the immortalisation is that an institution like school or hospital instead, not an office that political leaders use like the assembly complex,” he said. The head of coalition of Civil Society Organisations, Mallam Ibrahim Tudu, however, neither objected nor approved of the state governments’ decision to name the assembly complex after the late PDP chairman.