The Oluwo of Iwoland, Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, on Wednesday begged youths protesting against the defunct Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) of the Nigerian Police to cease the protest to avoid it being hijacked by hoodlums. The monarch condemned the attack on the palace of Soun Ogbomosho, Oba Oladunni Oyewumi and advised the protesters stop the protest in the interest of maintaining peace in the country, especially as government has granted their demands. Oluwo commended the youths for the courage to speak up against SARS and assured that that government and all stakeholders have heard their voices. Condemned the attack on the palace of Soun Ogbomoso, Oba Akanbi said it amounts to desecration of tradition and advised the perpetrators to appease Soun to avert grievous repercussion. According to the monarch, “I commend Nigerian youth for their tenacity. It is clear they have a voice. Their voice is heard. They are force of reckon. And the government, has, in the interest of the nation, taken a drastic step for better, effective policing through the needed reform” “I appeal to the protesters to go home. They have demanded the change of policy on policing and it is heard. It will not be good for Nigeria and protesters if their demonstration is hijacked by enemies of the nation” “Nigerians should note that police is part of us. We can only condemn their weakness but should appreciate their work in protecting lives and properties. “No one is perfect. While we do a critical appraisal of the Nigerian Police at this critical time, we should not forget their strength in protecting our lives and properties at risk of security threat. Just imagine the fate of a nation without security outpost?” “However, It is sacrilegious to attack a palace as ancient as Soun’s Palace unjustly. Yoruba moral values does not support such, most especially when the monarch is not primary object on the issue at hand” “The attack on Soun is an attack on Traditional Institution. The perpetrators should go and beg Soun if they do not want to incur evil on themselves. It is totally condemnable” The Oluwo of Iwoland, Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, on Wednesday begged youths protesting against the defunct Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) of the Nigerian Police to cease the protest to avoid it being hijacked by hoodlums. The monarch condemned the attack on the palace of Soun Ogbomosho, Oba Oladunni Oyewumi and advised the protesters stop the protest in the interest of maintaining peace in the country, especially as government has granted their demands. Oluwo commended the youths for the courage to speak up against SARS and assured that that government and all stakeholders have heard their voices. Condemned the attack on the palace of Soun Ogbomoso, Oba Akanbi said it amounts to desecration of tradition and advised the perpetrators to appease Soun to avert grievous repercussion. According to the monarch, “I commend Nigerian youth for their tenacity. It is clear they have a voice. Their voice is heard. They are force of reckon. And the government, has, in the interest of the nation, taken a drastic step for better, effective policing through the needed reform” “I appeal to the protesters to go home. They have demanded the change of policy on policing and it is heard. It will not be good for Nigeria and protesters if their demonstration is hijacked by enemies of the nation” “Nigerians should note that police is part of us. We can only condemn their weakness but should appreciate their work in protecting lives and properties. “No one is perfect. While we do a critical appraisal of the Nigerian Police at this critical time, we should not forget their strength in protecting our lives and properties at risk of security threat. Just imagine the fate of a nation without security outpost?” “However, It is sacrilegious to attack a palace as ancient as Soun’s Palace unjustly. Yoruba moral values does not support such, most especially when the monarch is not primary object on the issue at hand” “The attack on Soun is an attack on Traditional Institution. The perpetrators should go and beg Soun if they do not want to incur evil on themselves. It is totally condemnable”