The Adamawa state Governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri has congratulated Nigerians on the occasion of commemorating the nation’s Independence Day. “It is with great pleasure that I extend congratulations to Nigerians on the occasion of the nation’s 60th anniversary celebrations,” he said. Fintiri in a statement signed by his Press Secretary, Humwashi Wonosikou reassures assures the people of Adamawa that as a government, “We will not fail to liberate our people, to restore material wealth and true essence of democracy and bringing prosperity in our social contract with the people of the state.” He said after two decades of democratic process, the political class must advance democracy, peace and prosperity through mutual interests based on shared democratic values. “It is possible to achieve a truly free society rooted in common values in order for democracy to thrive,” he said. Fintiri noted that the 2020 anniversary theme “Nigeria @60 together” presents an opportunity for joint efforts to confront the twin crisis of COVID-19 and poverty through deepening capacity cooperation to overcome challenges. “We fought an unfortunate civil war, been through cycle of conflicts and crisis and most recently kidnapping and insurgency, but going forward, we must fight obstacles to moving forward the boundaries of freedom, the only danger to the hope that is Nigeria. Let’s borrow from our founding fathers and preserve the better Nigeria they have hoped for in our journey to nationhood,” he stated. He said Adamawa people deserve more after 60 years of self-rule and promised to make a difference within the period of his mandate. The Adamawa state Governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri has congratulated Nigerians on the occasion of commemorating the nation’s Independence Day. “It is with great pleasure that I extend congratulations to Nigerians on the occasion of the nation’s 60th anniversary celebrations,” he said. Fintiri in a statement signed by his Press Secretary, Humwashi Wonosikou reassures assures the people of Adamawa that as a government, “We will not fail to liberate our people, to restore material wealth and true essence of democracy and bringing prosperity in our social contract with the people of the state.” He said after two decades of democratic process, the political class must advance democracy, peace and prosperity through mutual interests based on shared democratic values. “It is possible to achieve a truly free society rooted in common values in order for democracy to thrive,” he said. Fintiri noted that the 2020 anniversary theme “Nigeria @60 together” presents an opportunity for joint efforts to confront the twin crisis of COVID-19 and poverty through deepening capacity cooperation to overcome challenges. “We fought an unfortunate civil war, been through cycle of conflicts and crisis and most recently kidnapping and insurgency, but going forward, we must fight obstacles to moving forward the boundaries of freedom, the only danger to the hope that is Nigeria. Let’s borrow from our founding fathers and preserve the better Nigeria they have hoped for in our journey to nationhood,” he stated. He said Adamawa people deserve more after 60 years of self-rule and promised to make a difference within the period of his mandate.