Edo State House of Assembly speaker Frank Okiye and six other state lawmakers on Tuesday formally dumped the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the People Democratic Party (PDP). Daily Trust reports that other lawmakers who dumped the APC at plenary alongside the speaker are Roland Asoro, Ephraim Aluebhosele, Sunday Ojiezele, Henry Okhuarobor, Emma Okoduwa and Marcus Onobun. Okiye, who announced the receipt of the letters from the six members including himself to decamp to the ruling party in the state, attributed their action to the desire to identify with Governor Godwin Obaseki According to him, the division and factions in the APC contributed to their joining the PDP so that they can perform their duties effectively as representatives of their Constituencies. But Hon. Emmanuel Agbaje, Hon. Yekini Idiaye and Hon. Nosa Okunbor, still remain members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Meanwhile the Assembly adopted the business calendar for the second quarter, second session of the 7th Assembly 2020. Presenting the report to the house, the majority leader, Hon Henry Okhuarobor stated that the Calendar would see the House sitting for 62 days in the second quarter; three days in September, 21 days in October, 21 days in November and 17 days in December. Edo State House of Assembly speaker Frank Okiye and six other state lawmakers on Tuesday formally dumped the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the People Democratic Party (PDP). Daily Trust reports that other lawmakers who dumped the APC at plenary alongside the speaker are Roland Asoro, Ephraim Aluebhosele, Sunday Ojiezele, Henry Okhuarobor, Emma Okoduwa and Marcus Onobun. Okiye, who announced the receipt of the letters from the six members including himself to decamp to the ruling party in the state, attributed their action to the desire to identify with Governor Godwin Obaseki According to him, the division and factions in the APC contributed to their joining the PDP so that they can perform their duties effectively as representatives of their Constituencies. But Hon. Emmanuel Agbaje, Hon. Yekini Idiaye and Hon. Nosa Okunbor, still remain members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Meanwhile the Assembly adopted the business calendar for the second quarter, second session of the 7th Assembly 2020. Presenting the report to the house, the majority leader, Hon Henry Okhuarobor stated that the Calendar would see the House sitting for 62 days in the second quarter; three days in September, 21 days in October, 21 days in November and 17 days in December.