The former Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef, has resigned from the All Progressives Congress (APC). AbdulLateef said his decision was due to the rejection of his movement by some “close leaders” he respected in the party. Daily Trust reports that the one-time lawmaker and former Amirul Hajj had on Tuesday launched Iyepe 2023, a movement to, according to him, encourage Lagosians to develop more interest in politics and curb voter apathy. He also indicated interest in the 2023 gubernatorial election, insisting it was the turn of the Aworis, another section of the state, to take over the governance. It was learnt that the formation of the movement resorted in the termination of his appointment as the Special Adviser to the Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly on Religious Affairs. AbdulLateef, however, thanked the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, whom he described as a great leader who fought tenaciously for democracy. “When I joined politics, he was there for me and assisted me greatly to occupy very enviable positions in the government. “”He has developed so many other individuals in very many capacities. May Allah reward you abundantly,” he said. The former Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef, has resigned from the All Progressives Congress (APC). AbdulLateef said his decision was due to the rejection of his movement by some “close leaders” he respected in the party. Daily Trust reports that the one-time lawmaker and former Amirul Hajj had on Tuesday launched Iyepe 2023, a movement to, according to him, encourage Lagosians to develop more interest in politics and curb voter apathy. He also indicated interest in the 2023 gubernatorial election, insisting it was the turn of the Aworis, another section of the state, to take over the governance. It was learnt that the formation of the movement resorted in the termination of his appointment as the Special Adviser to the Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly on Religious Affairs. AbdulLateef, however, thanked the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, whom he described as a great leader who fought tenaciously for democracy. “When I joined politics, he was there for me and assisted me greatly to occupy very enviable positions in the government. “”He has developed so many other individuals in very many capacities. May Allah reward you abundantly,” he said.