The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has postponed the 15 by-elections in 11 states, slated for October 31, over the #EndSARS protests across the country. National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee (IVEC), Festus Okoye, disclosed this at the end of the commission’s management meeting with the 37 Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) yesterday. The affected constituencies are Bayelsa Central Senatorial District; Bayelsa West Senatorial District; Nganzai State Constituency, Borno State; Bayo State Constituency, Borno State; Cross River North Senatorial District; and Obudu State Constituency, Cross River State. Others are Imo North Senatorial District; Lagos East Senatorial District; Kosofe II State Constituency, Lagos State; Plateau South Senatorial District; Bakura State Constituency, Zamfara State; Ibaji State Constituency, Kogi State; Isi-Uzo State Constituency, Enugu State and Bakori State Constituency, Katsina State. Okoye said that the decision was in compliance with Section 26 (2) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended). “The commission will continue to monitor the situation in all the states and constituencies, consult with relevant stakeholders and meet again in two weeks to review the situation and decide on a feasible date for the elections,” he said. The commission appealed for calm and understanding of the stakeholders and voters in the states where elections were scheduled, saying that the safety of the voters, election officials and other stakeholders was paramount to the commission. He expressed confidence that the country will emerge from the current challenges stronger.  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has postponed the 15 by-elections in 11 states, slated for October 31, over the #EndSARS protests across the country. National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee (IVEC), Festus Okoye, disclosed this at the end of the commission’s management meeting with the 37 Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) yesterday. The affected constituencies are Bayelsa Central Senatorial District; Bayelsa West Senatorial District; Nganzai State Constituency, Borno State; Bayo State Constituency, Borno State; Cross River North Senatorial District; and Obudu State Constituency, Cross River State. Others are Imo North Senatorial District; Lagos East Senatorial District; Kosofe II State Constituency, Lagos State; Plateau South Senatorial District; Bakura State Constituency, Zamfara State; Ibaji State Constituency, Kogi State; Isi-Uzo State Constituency, Enugu State and Bakori State Constituency, Katsina State. Okoye said that the decision was in compliance with Section 26 (2) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended). “The commission will continue to monitor the situation in all the states and constituencies, consult with relevant stakeholders and meet again in two weeks to review the situation and decide on a feasible date for the elections,” he said. The commission appealed for calm and understanding of the stakeholders and voters in the states where elections were scheduled, saying that the safety of the voters, election officials and other stakeholders was paramount to the commission. He expressed confidence that the country will emerge from the current challenges stronger. 