Energy and policy makers have said regulatory and non-regulatory barriers worldwide have hindered the transition pace of hydrogen as a cleaner energy source globally, a statement said. During a virtual panel of sustainable energy experts convened by the Global Manufacturing and Industrialisation Summit’s  #GMIS2020 Digital Series held early September, Tareq Emtairah, the Director, Department of Energy, United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the organization was helping developing countries in their clean energy transitions. UNIDO is working with the Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN) to promote Small Hydropower Plant, among other clean energy sources in Nigeria in line with the Paris Agreement on actions against climate change. “Hydrogen is seen as a clean fuel that is emission-free upon utilisation with water,” he said. Charley Rattan, the CEO, Charley Rattan Associates, United Kingdom, said there is huge infrastructure already for hydrogen energy use. “You have to meet existing requirements, and if the existing requirements are not fit for purpose, it’s going to take a little bit of time.” Rebecca Maserumule, the Chief Director, Hydrogen and Energy at the National Department of Science and Innovation in South Africa, said hydrogen could be used for clean energy in the extractive industries and transport sectors rather than using the coal-fired power plants. In Nigeria, there are moves by the Federal Ministries of Environment and Petroleum Resources to promote the use of methanol, biogas, natural gas and steam as alternative fuel. Energy and policy makers have said regulatory and non-regulatory barriers worldwide have hindered the transition pace of hydrogen as a cleaner energy source globally, a statement said. During a virtual panel of sustainable energy experts convened by the Global Manufacturing and Industrialisation Summit’s  #GMIS2020 Digital Series held early September, Tareq Emtairah, the Director, Department of Energy, United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the organization was helping developing countries in their clean energy transitions. UNIDO is working with the Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN) to promote Small Hydropower Plant, among other clean energy sources in Nigeria in line with the Paris Agreement on actions against climate change. “Hydrogen is seen as a clean fuel that is emission-free upon utilisation with water,” he said. Charley Rattan, the CEO, Charley Rattan Associates, United Kingdom, said there is huge infrastructure already for hydrogen energy use. “You have to meet existing requirements, and if the existing requirements are not fit for purpose, it’s going to take a little bit of time.” Rebecca Maserumule, the Chief Director, Hydrogen and Energy at the National Department of Science and Innovation in South Africa, said hydrogen could be used for clean energy in the extractive industries and transport sectors rather than using the coal-fired power plants. In Nigeria, there are moves by the Federal Ministries of Environment and Petroleum Resources to promote the use of methanol, biogas, natural gas and steam as alternative fuel.