The leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra and Ebonyi states, Tuesday, joined the call for the zoning of the party’s presidential ticket to the South-east geopolitical zone. This is coming 24 hours after members of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly issued a 7-day ultimatum to the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to zone its presidential ticket to the South-east geopolitical zone, come 2023. The state chapter of the party told the NWC that it would not accept any other arrangements if its demands are not met in one week, adding that it should prepare to face the consequences. Barrister Onyekachi Nwebonyi, Chairman of the PDP in the state said this while briefing journalists on the position of the state working committee. “In the event that these demands are not met, Ebonyi State chapter of the PDP will not accept any other arrangement as that might cause apathy among the teeming supporters of the party in the state,” he said. He also explained that the zone, which has not gained from the zoning arrangement of the party since the inception of the present democracy in 1999, has qualified persons for the presidency. Also, the chairman of PDP, Anambra State chapter, Mr Ndubuisi Nwobu, said every Igbo man was clamouring for the South-east to produce the next president of the country. According to him, for equity, justice and fair play, all the major political parties in the country should zone their tickets to the South-east geopolitical zone. He, however, said he was not from Ebonyi State and could not really know the motive for the 7-day ultimatum. When contacted, PDP National Publicity Secretary Kola Ologbondiyan told our correspondent in a telephone chat that he was not aware of the development. The leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra and Ebonyi states, Tuesday, joined the call for the zoning of the party’s presidential ticket to the South-east geopolitical zone. This is coming 24 hours after members of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly issued a 7-day ultimatum to the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to zone its presidential ticket to the South-east geopolitical zone, come 2023. The state chapter of the party told the NWC that it would not accept any other arrangements if its demands are not met in one week, adding that it should prepare to face the consequences. Barrister Onyekachi Nwebonyi, Chairman of the PDP in the state said this while briefing journalists on the position of the state working committee. “In the event that these demands are not met, Ebonyi State chapter of the PDP will not accept any other arrangement as that might cause apathy among the teeming supporters of the party in the state,” he said. He also explained that the zone, which has not gained from the zoning arrangement of the party since the inception of the present democracy in 1999, has qualified persons for the presidency. Also, the chairman of PDP, Anambra State chapter, Mr Ndubuisi Nwobu, said every Igbo man was clamouring for the South-east to produce the next president of the country. According to him, for equity, justice and fair play, all the major political parties in the country should zone their tickets to the South-east geopolitical zone. He, however, said he was not from Ebonyi State and could not really know the motive for the 7-day ultimatum. When contacted, PDP National Publicity Secretary Kola Ologbondiyan told our correspondent in a telephone chat that he was not aware of the development.