The Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIOTA) has set up a 35-member committee to monitor effective evacuation of cargo by the four major modes of transportation including Water, Road, Aviation, Pipeline and Rail. It said the move is to ensure a seamless movement of goods in and out of both the seaports and airports across the nation. Members of the institute had at a meeting to elect their new executive members expressed concern at the lack of interconnectivity among the four major modes of transportation in Nigeria. Dr. Bashir Jamoh, who emerged the president of the institute for the second term, said the disconnection among the four major means of transportation accounts for the congestion at the various terminals in the seaports. Jamoh who is also the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), said the decision to monitor the inter-modal system of transportation in the country was reached at the virtual election of the institute held on September 12, 2020, even as he said the CIoTA had also ratified members of the governing council to drive the focus of the institute. The Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIOTA) has set up a 35-member committee to monitor effective evacuation of cargo by the four major modes of transportation including Water, Road, Aviation, Pipeline and Rail. It said the move is to ensure a seamless movement of goods in and out of both the seaports and airports across the nation. Members of the institute had at a meeting to elect their new executive members expressed concern at the lack of interconnectivity among the four major modes of transportation in Nigeria. Dr. Bashir Jamoh, who emerged the president of the institute for the second term, said the disconnection among the four major means of transportation accounts for the congestion at the various terminals in the seaports. Jamoh who is also the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), said the decision to monitor the inter-modal system of transportation in the country was reached at the virtual election of the institute held on September 12, 2020, even as he said the CIoTA had also ratified members of the governing council to drive the focus of the institute.