The Asale of Isale kingdom in Yewa North Local Government Area of Ogun, Oba Ganiyu Adegbola on Thursday expressed fears of possible reprisal attack by residents of Oja-Odan, following an alleged killing of a middle-aged man, Atanda Moses. Moses had died from stray bullets allegedly fired by Customs officers on Saturday. The officers attached to the Yewa border region were said to have engaged rice smugglers in the bush but were allegedly overpowered. Atanda, an artisan was hit by a stray bullet on Saturday and died on Sunday. But the Customs Spokesman, Hameed Oloyede said the victim was killed by the stray bullets fired by the smugglers. This development angered residents of the region including members of Nigeria Automobile Technician Association (NATA) in Oja-Odan who threatened to attack the Customs officers but were calmed by the monarch. Oba Adegbola while speaking with newsmen on Thursday said the incident is one of many which had happened in recent times, warning that his subjects have had enough of the killings and he might not be able to calm them again. “I heard information that was initially unclear until members of NATA came to my house, they were more than 40. “They said they came to inform me that they want to fight with Customs officers. “I asked why and they told me they were fed up of the killings when custom officers come shooting around even in markets. “The man that was killed, Moses Atanda is well known to me and he is a panel beater not a smuggler. “I was told he was killed by a stray bullet at his workshop. “This is not the first time an innocent resident would be killed. “We are just thankful that it wasn’t a market day. “I have been doing my best to appeal to my people not to be violent but I may not be able to calm them any longer. “Each time this incident happens, they want to attack. “Let’s assume 100 Customs officers are deployed, this NATA people imagine their numbers if they decide to attack, will their family stay behind, no, even other villagers will join and they will overcome these security agencies. “The state government should compensate the family of the deceased immediately to calm the situation while they are still looking for ways of ending the killing of our innocent people,” the monarch said. He also lamented the neglect of people in the area. “If we will be ceded to neighbouring countries like Benin or Togo, it should happen. “We can’t be in Nigeria and be treated like foreigners. “Our place here is shut out from the entire Nigeria. “Filling stations are shut, there’s nothing we are benefiting. “The government needs to see to our development too,” he added. The Asale of Isale kingdom in Yewa North Local Government Area of Ogun, Oba Ganiyu Adegbola on Thursday expressed fears of possible reprisal attack by residents of Oja-Odan, following an alleged killing of a middle-aged man, Atanda Moses. Moses had died from stray bullets allegedly fired by Customs officers on Saturday. The officers attached to the Yewa border region were said to have engaged rice smugglers in the bush but were allegedly overpowered. Atanda, an artisan was hit by a stray bullet on Saturday and died on Sunday. But the Customs Spokesman, Hameed Oloyede said the victim was killed by the stray bullets fired by the smugglers. This development angered residents of the region including members of Nigeria Automobile Technician Association (NATA) in Oja-Odan who threatened to attack the Customs officers but were calmed by the monarch. Oba Adegbola while speaking with newsmen on Thursday said the incident is one of many which had happened in recent times, warning that his subjects have had enough of the killings and he might not be able to calm them again. “I heard information that was initially unclear until members of NATA came to my house, they were more than 40. “They said they came to inform me that they want to fight with Customs officers. “I asked why and they told me they were fed up of the killings when custom officers come shooting around even in markets. “The man that was killed, Moses Atanda is well known to me and he is a panel beater not a smuggler. “I was told he was killed by a stray bullet at his workshop. “This is not the first time an innocent resident would be killed. “We are just thankful that it wasn’t a market day. “I have been doing my best to appeal to my people not to be violent but I may not be able to calm them any longer. “Each time this incident happens, they want to attack. “Let’s assume 100 Customs officers are deployed, this NATA people imagine their numbers if they decide to attack, will their family stay behind, no, even other villagers will join and they will overcome these security agencies. “The state government should compensate the family of the deceased immediately to calm the situation while they are still looking for ways of ending the killing of our innocent people,” the monarch said. He also lamented the neglect of people in the area. “If we will be ceded to neighbouring countries like Benin or Togo, it should happen. “We can’t be in Nigeria and be treated like foreigners. “Our place here is shut out from the entire Nigeria. “Filling stations are shut, there’s nothing we are benefiting. “The government needs to see to our development too,” he added.