A leaked audio of a conversation between Adamawa State governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri and a member of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC), Husaini Gambo in which the governor threatened to deal with an opposition politician is generating controversy. Social media users in Adamawa and beyond have been sharing the viral audio and making critical comments since it got out on Wednesday. The governor who spoke in anger vowed to deal decisively with Hussaini, if he was crossed. Hussaini severally tried to find out the reason for the threat before he too eventually lost his temper. Hussaini, the leader of a group, Adamawa Concerned Citizens has been one of the outspoken members of the opposition since the defeat of the then incumbent APC governor, Muhammadu Jibrilla Bindow by Fintiri in 2019. “Husaini, if you talk about me again, I will deal with you and nobody in this. country can save you,” the governor said. As the argument heated up, Hussaini told the governor, “Your Excellency, the worst you can do is sending me to prison.” When contacted, Hussaini confirmed the authenticity of the audio to Daily Trust, saying Fintiri had called him around 8pm on Wednesday. In a video clip released earlier, Hussaini chided the government for causing the recent looting spree sparked by COVID-19 relief materials where youths looted warehouses, saying the crisis would not have happened if the state government had distributed the relief materials to the people.. In a swift reaction, the state APC Organising Secretary, Ahmad Lawan condemned the governor’s action as petty and intolerant. He added that the governor was elected to protect the entire people of Adamawa and not to threaten their lives and freedom.. In his response, the governor who spoke through his Director General, Media and Communication, Solomon Kumangar said the audio clip had been doctored. A leaked audio of a conversation between Adamawa State governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri and a member of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC), Husaini Gambo in which the governor threatened to deal with an opposition politician is generating controversy. Social media users in Adamawa and beyond have been sharing the viral audio and making critical comments since it got out on Wednesday. The governor who spoke in anger vowed to deal decisively with Hussaini, if he was crossed. Hussaini severally tried to find out the reason for the threat before he too eventually lost his temper. Hussaini, the leader of a group, Adamawa Concerned Citizens has been one of the outspoken members of the opposition since the defeat of the then incumbent APC governor, Muhammadu Jibrilla Bindow by Fintiri in 2019. “Husaini, if you talk about me again, I will deal with you and nobody in this. country can save you,” the governor said. As the argument heated up, Hussaini told the governor, “Your Excellency, the worst you can do is sending me to prison.” When contacted, Hussaini confirmed the authenticity of the audio to Daily Trust, saying Fintiri had called him around 8pm on Wednesday. In a video clip released earlier, Hussaini chided the government for causing the recent looting spree sparked by COVID-19 relief materials where youths looted warehouses, saying the crisis would not have happened if the state government had distributed the relief materials to the people.. In a swift reaction, the state APC Organising Secretary, Ahmad Lawan condemned the governor’s action as petty and intolerant. He added that the governor was elected to protect the entire people of Adamawa and not to threaten their lives and freedom.. In his response, the governor who spoke through his Director General, Media and Communication, Solomon Kumangar said the audio clip had been doctored.