The United Nations Women and Standard Bank said they will equip more women farmers in Africa with the skills and resources to grow their businesses. Standard Bank has provided S$3 million and ongoing support through financial literacy and other programmes to women in the continent. In Nigeria, the fund which was disbursed in 2019, is currently supporting 2,300 women beneficiary agri-business groups and cooperatives to increase the productivity and profitability of their operations within the rice and shea-nut value chains. It will ultimately deliver assistance to 12,500 rural women in the country. The Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) project is closely aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, with its focus on gender equality, access to decent work, and economic growth. Chief Executive of Africa Regions of the bank, Sola David-Borha said: “We believe the CSA project will not only drive the continent’s growth but also contribute to uplift communities and the achievement of sustainable economic growth across Africa.” The United Nations Women and Standard Bank said they will equip more women farmers in Africa with the skills and resources to grow their businesses. Standard Bank has provided S$3 million and ongoing support through financial literacy and other programmes to women in the continent. In Nigeria, the fund which was disbursed in 2019, is currently supporting 2,300 women beneficiary agri-business groups and cooperatives to increase the productivity and profitability of their operations within the rice and shea-nut value chains. It will ultimately deliver assistance to 12,500 rural women in the country. The Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) project is closely aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, with its focus on gender equality, access to decent work, and economic growth. Chief Executive of Africa Regions of the bank, Sola David-Borha said: “We believe the CSA project will not only drive the continent’s growth but also contribute to uplift communities and the achievement of sustainable economic growth across Africa.”