Miss Victory Ibrahim, a Junior Secondary School (JSS) student from Karu ward, on Monday acted as Chairman, Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), for 24 hours to commemorate the 2020 International Day for the Girl-Child. The day is celebrated yearly on Oct. 11 and has as theme: ”My Voice, Our Equal Future’. Ibrahim, appreciated the chairman, Mr. Abdullahi Candido, for the privilege given to her team and the children of the council to celebrate the day. “We thank you for the opportunity given to us. This will inspire our dreams and aspirations to excel and reach for the skies. I wish to call on the girl-child wherever she may be, whatever circumstances she may find herself in, to rise to maximise her potential. “She should demand for her rights as member of the society with enormous contributions to make the growth of her land. “I also want to call for an end to gender based violence, harmful practices such as female genital mutilation and early marriages, rape, intimidation, harassment and all abuses melted daily on the girl child,” she added. Responding, Candido said the opportunity given to the young girls to act in various capacities would inspire them to become agents of social change. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Miss Hauwa Garba and Miss Gift Auta, both 12- year-olds, were also selected as Secretary and Speaker respectively to celebrate the day. (NAN) Miss Victory Ibrahim, a Junior Secondary School (JSS) student from Karu ward, on Monday acted as Chairman, Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), for 24 hours to commemorate the 2020 International Day for the Girl-Child. The day is celebrated yearly on Oct. 11 and has as theme: ”My Voice, Our Equal Future’. Ibrahim, appreciated the chairman, Mr. Abdullahi Candido, for the privilege given to her team and the children of the council to celebrate the day. “We thank you for the opportunity given to us. This will inspire our dreams and aspirations to excel and reach for the skies. I wish to call on the girl-child wherever she may be, whatever circumstances she may find herself in, to rise to maximise her potential. “She should demand for her rights as member of the society with enormous contributions to make the growth of her land. “I also want to call for an end to gender based violence, harmful practices such as female genital mutilation and early marriages, rape, intimidation, harassment and all abuses melted daily on the girl child,” she added. Responding, Candido said the opportunity given to the young girls to act in various capacities would inspire them to become agents of social change. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Miss Hauwa Garba and Miss Gift Auta, both 12- year-olds, were also selected as Secretary and Speaker respectively to celebrate the day. (NAN)