Eight persons sustained injuries in two separate car crashes which occurred at Awawa and Yangoji, on the Abuja-Lokoja road. A witness said the first crash occurred around 8:20 am at Awawa village, after a Ford bus with registration number ABJ 513 XA lost control and crashed into a ditch, leaving three persons injured. He said those injured were later taken to hospital by the rescue team of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC). He also said five persons sustained injuries in another crash which occurred at Yangoji village, along the same road on Wednesday. He said the accident happened around noon when a Nissan pick-up van with registration number KTN 107 XA lost control and fell into a ditch by the roadside. He said the injured, including the driver, were taken to hospital by the FRSC rescue team. When contacted, Abaji unit commander of the FRSC, ACC Abubakar Shehu Dogondaji, confirmed the first incident, which he attributed to speed limit violation and loss of control, while the Yangoji unit head of operation, Ilyasu Jimoh, confirmed the second crash, saying the victims were taken to the Kwali General Hospital.  Eight persons sustained injuries in two separate car crashes which occurred at Awawa and Yangoji, on the Abuja-Lokoja road. A witness said the first crash occurred around 8:20 am at Awawa village, after a Ford bus with registration number ABJ 513 XA lost control and crashed into a ditch, leaving three persons injured. He said those injured were later taken to hospital by the rescue team of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC). He also said five persons sustained injuries in another crash which occurred at Yangoji village, along the same road on Wednesday. He said the accident happened around noon when a Nissan pick-up van with registration number KTN 107 XA lost control and fell into a ditch by the roadside. He said the injured, including the driver, were taken to hospital by the FRSC rescue team. When contacted, Abaji unit commander of the FRSC, ACC Abubakar Shehu Dogondaji, confirmed the first incident, which he attributed to speed limit violation and loss of control, while the Yangoji unit head of operation, Ilyasu Jimoh, confirmed the second crash, saying the victims were taken to the Kwali General Hospital. 