The Lagos State government and the police have been called upon to ensure that the murderers of Favour Okechukwu are arrested and prosecuted. Favour, who is supposed to mark her 12th year birthday on October 21, was sent on an errand by her mother two poles away from her house in Ejigbo community, Lagos on September 30 at 3pm and some miscreants within the community accosted and raped her to death. Speaking after a protest by some civil society and child protection groups on Monday in Ikeja, Lagos, the Executive Director of Women’s Rights and Health Project (WRAHP), Bose Ironsi, noted that the issue of rape in Nigeria was becoming a calculated terror against children, women and girls. Addressing the protesters, the Lagos State Police Commissioner, Hakeem Odumosu said, “I know what the parent must be going through because Favour was a promising child in the family. With my position as the Commissioner of Police, I want to assure you that everyone involved will be dealt with. Anywhere any dastardly act is carried out in Lagos henceforth, everyone will be arrested including the landlord of the building where the criminal activity took place. The landlord will be arrested for silent conspiracy. This will never go unresolved. Assuming she is my daughter, how will I feel? Justice will be done and this will serve as a deterrent to others.” According to Ironsi, incessant rape incidents within the community is sending a very wrong message to children that they cannot play, go to church, mosque, school or move around their community. “We will not want this to be swept under the carpet. It’s still very fresh. We want result, action. Let the law take its due course and it should be on time. We are having more rape cases because many people feel they can get away with it. We have heard that such rape cases have been happening in the past and nothing was done to address it. She hinted that psychologists have been sent to the family to be able to start the process of healing.  The Lagos State government and the police have been called upon to ensure that the murderers of Favour Okechukwu are arrested and prosecuted. Favour, who is supposed to mark her 12th year birthday on October 21, was sent on an errand by her mother two poles away from her house in Ejigbo community, Lagos on September 30 at 3pm and some miscreants within the community accosted and raped her to death. Speaking after a protest by some civil society and child protection groups on Monday in Ikeja, Lagos, the Executive Director of Women’s Rights and Health Project (WRAHP), Bose Ironsi, noted that the issue of rape in Nigeria was becoming a calculated terror against children, women and girls. Addressing the protesters, the Lagos State Police Commissioner, Hakeem Odumosu said, “I know what the parent must be going through because Favour was a promising child in the family. With my position as the Commissioner of Police, I want to assure you that everyone involved will be dealt with. Anywhere any dastardly act is carried out in Lagos henceforth, everyone will be arrested including the landlord of the building where the criminal activity took place. The landlord will be arrested for silent conspiracy. This will never go unresolved. Assuming she is my daughter, how will I feel? Justice will be done and this will serve as a deterrent to others.” According to Ironsi, incessant rape incidents within the community is sending a very wrong message to children that they cannot play, go to church, mosque, school or move around their community. “We will not want this to be swept under the carpet. It’s still very fresh. We want result, action. Let the law take its due course and it should be on time. We are having more rape cases because many people feel they can get away with it. We have heard that such rape cases have been happening in the past and nothing was done to address it. She hinted that psychologists have been sent to the family to be able to start the process of healing. 