Ogun State governor,  Dapo Abiodun on Monday called for calm over the poor condition of the federal roads in the Sango area of the state. He said his government would do everything humanly possible, not only to fix the roads in the state, especially, Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government to ensure that the people enjoy “better life”. Abiodun gave the assurance on Monday on the heels of the growing agitations for the reconstruction of Lagos-Ota-Abeokuta; Ota-Idiroko and Sango-Joju roads in the industrial town by EndSARS protesters. In the plea, the governor stressed that permanent solutions would be brought to these roads in no distant future/ He stated that his administration had already carried out palliative works on the Ota-Idiroko road, while plans were in top gear to do the same on the Sango-Joju road, where more materials and equipment would be delivered this week. Abiodun disclosed that the Sango-Joju road had last week been approved by the Tenders Board, and is now awaiting award and ratification by the State Executive Council. This plea was contained in a personal message circulated online via the verified page of the governor. Abiodun said he understood the plight of the people, adding that he would not allow any security agency to stifle the voices of demonstrators who were simply exercising their fundamental right of association, assembly and peaceful protests. The governor recalled that the Ogun and Lagos state governments had earlier requested the ceding of these federal roads from the federal government, for full reconstruction. He however disclosed that there had not been a positive response yet from the federal government, making it impossible to bring a permanent solution to the roads, even as the Ogun State government continues to carry out palliative works pending the approval. Ogun State governor,  Dapo Abiodun on Monday called for calm over the poor condition of the federal roads in the Sango area of the state. He said his government would do everything humanly possible, not only to fix the roads in the state, especially, Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government to ensure that the people enjoy “better life”. Abiodun gave the assurance on Monday on the heels of the growing agitations for the reconstruction of Lagos-Ota-Abeokuta; Ota-Idiroko and Sango-Joju roads in the industrial town by EndSARS protesters. In the plea, the governor stressed that permanent solutions would be brought to these roads in no distant future/ He stated that his administration had already carried out palliative works on the Ota-Idiroko road, while plans were in top gear to do the same on the Sango-Joju road, where more materials and equipment would be delivered this week. Abiodun disclosed that the Sango-Joju road had last week been approved by the Tenders Board, and is now awaiting award and ratification by the State Executive Council. This plea was contained in a personal message circulated online via the verified page of the governor. Abiodun said he understood the plight of the people, adding that he would not allow any security agency to stifle the voices of demonstrators who were simply exercising their fundamental right of association, assembly and peaceful protests. The governor recalled that the Ogun and Lagos state governments had earlier requested the ceding of these federal roads from the federal government, for full reconstruction. He however disclosed that there had not been a positive response yet from the federal government, making it impossible to bring a permanent solution to the roads, even as the Ogun State government continues to carry out palliative works pending the approval.