The Gas Aggregation Company of Nigeria Limited (GACN) is set to hold a gas utilisation forum for the South Eastern region to facilitate the optimal use of natural gas to drive industrial and economic growth. The forum slated for Wednesday in Owerri will be hosted by the Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodinma. The four other Governors of Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi and Enugu states in the region will co-host the forum. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva will also attend personally given the obvious economic benefits of the event and its linkages with his prioritisation of gas development for economic growth nationwide further underpinned by the declaration of the year 2020 as the Year of Gas. According to a statement from GACN, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is fully supportive of the event as the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari will lead stakeholders to the forum. Chairman of GACN and Managing Director, Nigeria Petroleum Development Corporation (NPDC), Engr. Mansur Sambo noted that the forum would enable critical gas-to-power stakeholders to proffer practical end-to-end energy solutions to industries in the region. Managing Director and CEO of GACN, Mr.  Olalekan Ogunleye, said the South East is brimming with commercial hubs and industrial clusters and that the over 500 industry drivers expected at the forum will be provided with practical and efficient energy solutions that would significantly reduce their operating cost thereby freeing up more resources for expansion, profit. GACN held a workshop in September to update the master gas sale agreements to reflect current market realities and ensure equitable risk allocation between parties to such agreements.  The Gas Aggregation Company of Nigeria Limited (GACN) is set to hold a gas utilisation forum for the South Eastern region to facilitate the optimal use of natural gas to drive industrial and economic growth. The forum slated for Wednesday in Owerri will be hosted by the Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodinma. The four other Governors of Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi and Enugu states in the region will co-host the forum. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva will also attend personally given the obvious economic benefits of the event and its linkages with his prioritisation of gas development for economic growth nationwide further underpinned by the declaration of the year 2020 as the Year of Gas. According to a statement from GACN, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is fully supportive of the event as the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari will lead stakeholders to the forum. Chairman of GACN and Managing Director, Nigeria Petroleum Development Corporation (NPDC), Engr. Mansur Sambo noted that the forum would enable critical gas-to-power stakeholders to proffer practical end-to-end energy solutions to industries in the region. Managing Director and CEO of GACN, Mr.  Olalekan Ogunleye, said the South East is brimming with commercial hubs and industrial clusters and that the over 500 industry drivers expected at the forum will be provided with practical and efficient energy solutions that would significantly reduce their operating cost thereby freeing up more resources for expansion, profit. GACN held a workshop in September to update the master gas sale agreements to reflect current market realities and ensure equitable risk allocation between parties to such agreements. 