The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the leading opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have thrown tantrums at each other over #EndSARS protests in the country. The PDP in a statement on Wednesday, by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan said President Muhammadu Buhari should take responsibility for the shooting and reported killing of peaceful protesters by military operatives at Lekki Toll Gate in Lagos on Tuesday night. The PDP said, “Moreover, the video showing police vans and vehicles belonging to other security agencies bringing in and coordinating armed thugs to attack peaceful protesters in Abuja points to serious complicity in high places. “The APC and its agents in government circles had kept mute over reports in the public space that they are behind the deployment of the armed thugs to infiltrate peaceful protests and perpetrate acts of violence so as to discredit the demonstration and justify their attacks on protesters; a development that had led to escalation of restiveness in various parts of our country. “Furthermore, the unexplained dismantling of security cameras and lights at the Lekki Toll gate before military operatives opened fire on peaceful protesters, further points to high-level conspiracy against Nigerians. “Such unleashing of terror against peaceful demonstrators exposes a dangerous recourse to barefaced brutality, violence and killing to suppress and subjugate the Nigerian people. “Our party demands that President Buhari speaks out on the sorry state of our nation under his watch and command. His administration has assaulted the foundations of our nationhood and he should accept responsibility.” But the APC in a statement by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena said PDP leaders were playing politics with #EndSARS protests. The APC also accused the PDP and its leaders of “directly and indirectly” sponsoring the protest. “Since the protest started, the PDP elements have taken over the social media making various unguarded assertions thereby fueling the protest. “The APC Caretaker Committee Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe state has rightly noted the hidden agenda in the #EndSARS protests. “Like our Chairman said all leaders (including PDP leaders) should know that it is only when the country exists in peace that one can achieve their goals, you cannot be a leader through chaos, it will not be well. “We, however, repeat our appeal to the protesting youths to give dialogue and peace a chance while ignoring insensitive fueling by the PDP,” the APC said. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the leading opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have thrown tantrums at each other over #EndSARS protests in the country. The PDP in a statement on Wednesday, by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan said President Muhammadu Buhari should take responsibility for the shooting and reported killing of peaceful protesters by military operatives at Lekki Toll Gate in Lagos on Tuesday night. The PDP said, “Moreover, the video showing police vans and vehicles belonging to other security agencies bringing in and coordinating armed thugs to attack peaceful protesters in Abuja points to serious complicity in high places. “The APC and its agents in government circles had kept mute over reports in the public space that they are behind the deployment of the armed thugs to infiltrate peaceful protests and perpetrate acts of violence so as to discredit the demonstration and justify their attacks on protesters; a development that had led to escalation of restiveness in various parts of our country. “Furthermore, the unexplained dismantling of security cameras and lights at the Lekki Toll gate before military operatives opened fire on peaceful protesters, further points to high-level conspiracy against Nigerians. “Such unleashing of terror against peaceful demonstrators exposes a dangerous recourse to barefaced brutality, violence and killing to suppress and subjugate the Nigerian people. “Our party demands that President Buhari speaks out on the sorry state of our nation under his watch and command. His administration has assaulted the foundations of our nationhood and he should accept responsibility.” But the APC in a statement by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena said PDP leaders were playing politics with #EndSARS protests. The APC also accused the PDP and its leaders of “directly and indirectly” sponsoring the protest. “Since the protest started, the PDP elements have taken over the social media making various unguarded assertions thereby fueling the protest. “The APC Caretaker Committee Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe state has rightly noted the hidden agenda in the #EndSARS protests. “Like our Chairman said all leaders (including PDP leaders) should know that it is only when the country exists in peace that one can achieve their goals, you cannot be a leader through chaos, it will not be well. “We, however, repeat our appeal to the protesting youths to give dialogue and peace a chance while ignoring insensitive fueling by the PDP,” the APC said.