The Senate is yet to commence legislative action on President Muhammadu Buhari’s request to confirm four nominees for appointment as Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) commissioners, Daily Trust reports. Buhari had, on Tuesday, nominated his aide on Social Media, Lauretta Onochie (Delta), Prof. Muhammad Sani Kallah (Katsina) and Prof. Kunle Cornelius Ajayi (Ekiti) as national commissioners of INEC. He also nominated Saidu Babura Ahmad as Resident Electoral Commissioner (Jigawa). However, thunderous outrage has been trailing the nomination of Onochie as the leading opposition party, PDP, and CSOs alleged that she is a card-carrying member of the APC. The ruling party, however, countered it, saying she has not contested for any election under it. At plenary, on Wednesday, the Senate only acted on the president’s request for the confirmation of the appointment of three executive directors of the Board of the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA). The letter for the confirmation of FERMA executive directors was read the same day as that of the INEC commissioner nominees. As is customary, after the president’s letter seeking confirmation of nominees is read on the floor of the Senate, the request will be referred to the relevant committees on the next legislative day for further action. However, while the names of the FERMA nominees were referred to the Senate Committee on FERMA for screening, no action was taken on those of the INEC. Contacted, the spokesperson of the Senate, Senator Ajibola Basiru, said the INEC commissioner nominees would be referred to the relevant committee when the matter is listed on the Senate order paper. Meanwhile, the Senate, yesterday, confirmed the nomination of Dr Chukwuemeka Chukwu for appointment as REC, representing Abia State in the INEC. The confirmation followed the consideration of the report of the Senate Committee on INEC, chaired by Senator Kabiru Gaya (Kano South). He said no petition or incriminating reports were received against the nominee and that he was not affiliated to any political party or participated in any political rally or campaign. The Senate is yet to commence legislative action on President Muhammadu Buhari’s request to confirm four nominees for appointment as Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) commissioners, Daily Trust reports. Buhari had, on Tuesday, nominated his aide on Social Media, Lauretta Onochie (Delta), Prof. Muhammad Sani Kallah (Katsina) and Prof. Kunle Cornelius Ajayi (Ekiti) as national commissioners of INEC. He also nominated Saidu Babura Ahmad as Resident Electoral Commissioner (Jigawa). However, thunderous outrage has been trailing the nomination of Onochie as the leading opposition party, PDP, and CSOs alleged that she is a card-carrying member of the APC. The ruling party, however, countered it, saying she has not contested for any election under it. At plenary, on Wednesday, the Senate only acted on the president’s request for the confirmation of the appointment of three executive directors of the Board of the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA). The letter for the confirmation of FERMA executive directors was read the same day as that of the INEC commissioner nominees. As is customary, after the president’s letter seeking confirmation of nominees is read on the floor of the Senate, the request will be referred to the relevant committees on the next legislative day for further action. However, while the names of the FERMA nominees were referred to the Senate Committee on FERMA for screening, no action was taken on those of the INEC. Contacted, the spokesperson of the Senate, Senator Ajibola Basiru, said the INEC commissioner nominees would be referred to the relevant committee when the matter is listed on the Senate order paper. Meanwhile, the Senate, yesterday, confirmed the nomination of Dr Chukwuemeka Chukwu for appointment as REC, representing Abia State in the INEC. The confirmation followed the consideration of the report of the Senate Committee on INEC, chaired by Senator Kabiru Gaya (Kano South). He said no petition or incriminating reports were received against the nominee and that he was not affiliated to any political party or participated in any political rally or campaign.