The Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, has congratulated all the teachers in the FCT on the occasion of the 2020  World Teachers Day, urging them to be committed to duty. Malam Bello, who reiterated the commitment of the FCT Administration to the development of the education sector and the improvement of the welfare of FCT teachers, also charged them to ensure quality of teaching in schools. “Education is the bedrock of society and no nation desirous of progress and development can afford to ignore the education sector. “We remain committed to the development of education in all its ramifications in the FCT and we will continue to commit time and resources to ensure that the sector meets up with the expectations of residents of the FCT,” he stressed. According to a statement by the Minister’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Anthony Ogunleye, Bello also assured of commitment to the improvement of the welfare of teachers and manpower development to enhance quality of teaching. “A teacher cannot impart knowledge that he or she does not have. Training is therefore very essential,” he added. The FCT Minister also commended the efforts of Ms Omoregbe Doreen Osarobo of JSS Gwagwalada, who was declared the 5th best junior public school teacher in the country during the World Teachers’ Day ceremony. He said that her recognition was a testament to the hard work and dedication of FCT school teachers who have always impressed on the national stage.  The Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, has congratulated all the teachers in the FCT on the occasion of the 2020  World Teachers Day, urging them to be committed to duty. Malam Bello, who reiterated the commitment of the FCT Administration to the development of the education sector and the improvement of the welfare of FCT teachers, also charged them to ensure quality of teaching in schools. “Education is the bedrock of society and no nation desirous of progress and development can afford to ignore the education sector. “We remain committed to the development of education in all its ramifications in the FCT and we will continue to commit time and resources to ensure that the sector meets up with the expectations of residents of the FCT,” he stressed. According to a statement by the Minister’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Anthony Ogunleye, Bello also assured of commitment to the improvement of the welfare of teachers and manpower development to enhance quality of teaching. “A teacher cannot impart knowledge that he or she does not have. Training is therefore very essential,” he added. The FCT Minister also commended the efforts of Ms Omoregbe Doreen Osarobo of JSS Gwagwalada, who was declared the 5th best junior public school teacher in the country during the World Teachers’ Day ceremony. He said that her recognition was a testament to the hard work and dedication of FCT school teachers who have always impressed on the national stage. 