The pilot take-off of the National Hajj Savings Scheme (HSS) that would make it easier for intending Muslim pilgrims to perform one of the five pillars of Islam, the Hajj, commenced on Sunday in Kano State. The scheme, which allows prospective pilgrims to make gradual deposits through Jaiz Bank Plc, was launched by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Abubakar Sa’ad III. Represented by the Emir of Bichi, Alhaji Nasiru Ado Bayero, the Sultan charged NAHCON and Jaiz Bank to be transparent in the operation of the scheme. He said the scheme will enable every Muslim to “perform the Hajj without depending on government. It will ensure proper planning and the funds realised will be invested in Shari’a compliant instruments.” The Managing Director of Jaiz Bank, Hassan Usman, said the National Hajj Savings Scheme is a significant milestone for all stakeholders in the Hajj ecosystem in Nigeria. “From planning, funding to actual operations, the scheme has the potential to positively affect every act and actor in the process. With such a scheme in place, intending pilgrims that do not have the wherewithal can gradually plan and actualise their dream without stress by saving gradually. “Even those who did not live long enough to complete their savings might still, in Allah’s infinite mercy, receive the reward for Hajj, because they are pilgrims by bringing intention (niyyat) and action (amal) together. The scheme can also be the key to making them highly self-sustaining in the long run,” Usman said. Chairman of NAHCON, Barr. Zikirullah Kunle Hassan, said an agreement has already been entered with JAIZ to ensure that deposited funds are invested in shariah-compliant ways and generate profits that will complement the deposits by intending pilgrims in paying for the cost of Hajj. He also described the event as historic because “this is one of its kind in the continent as we are changing the narrative of Hajj Scheme to make it easier for people to perform Hajj.” Governor of Kano State, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, said the state government is fully in support of the scheme. The pilot take-off of the National Hajj Savings Scheme (HSS) that would make it easier for intending Muslim pilgrims to perform one of the five pillars of Islam, the Hajj, commenced on Sunday in Kano State. The scheme, which allows prospective pilgrims to make gradual deposits through Jaiz Bank Plc, was launched by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Abubakar Sa’ad III. Represented by the Emir of Bichi, Alhaji Nasiru Ado Bayero, the Sultan charged NAHCON and Jaiz Bank to be transparent in the operation of the scheme. He said the scheme will enable every Muslim to “perform the Hajj without depending on government. It will ensure proper planning and the funds realised will be invested in Shari’a compliant instruments.” The Managing Director of Jaiz Bank, Hassan Usman, said the National Hajj Savings Scheme is a significant milestone for all stakeholders in the Hajj ecosystem in Nigeria. “From planning, funding to actual operations, the scheme has the potential to positively affect every act and actor in the process. With such a scheme in place, intending pilgrims that do not have the wherewithal can gradually plan and actualise their dream without stress by saving gradually. “Even those who did not live long enough to complete their savings might still, in Allah’s infinite mercy, receive the reward for Hajj, because they are pilgrims by bringing intention (niyyat) and action (amal) together. The scheme can also be the key to making them highly self-sustaining in the long run,” Usman said. Chairman of NAHCON, Barr. Zikirullah Kunle Hassan, said an agreement has already been entered with JAIZ to ensure that deposited funds are invested in shariah-compliant ways and generate profits that will complement the deposits by intending pilgrims in paying for the cost of Hajj. He also described the event as historic because “this is one of its kind in the continent as we are changing the narrative of Hajj Scheme to make it easier for people to perform Hajj.” Governor of Kano State, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, said the state government is fully in support of the scheme.