The Lagos State government has said it expects over 100,000 participants at the 20th anniversary of the Lagos Economic Summit Group (LESG) designed to chart the path for the sustainable socio-economic development of the state. ‘Ehingbeti 2020’ holding November 10-12, 2020 physically and virtually, will provide a robust platform for perspectives on how to manage the peculiar socio-economic landscape of the state in the coming decade. Speaking at the unveiling of the new summit logo, Mr. Oloyemi Cordoso, co-choir of the ‘Ehingbeti 2020’ Steering Committee and former Lagos State commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget said:  “This year’s summit is aimed at reconnecting with the private sector, which is the bedrock of the Logos Economic Summit. “The quest to strengthen the existing relationship between government and the private sector is one of the major goals of this summit since greater private sector participation in governance is a prerequisite for a functional state.” Cardoso said with the absence of the economic summit in the past four years, there seemed to be a decline in the rate of public-private collaboration in the state. Ehingbeti is a public-private sector roundtable that started as a collaborative effort between the Lagos State government and the Business Club, lkeja. The summit, hosted by successive administrations in the state since the beginning of the 4th Republic, has consistently redefined the dynamics of public-private sector collaboration for development across social and economic indices in the state. The commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, who is also a co-chair of the steering committee, Sam Egube, said in the last two decades, Ehingbeti had played a pivotal role in the transformation of Lagos State, with useful inputs into Lagos State Development Plans (lLSDP) “Our realities from 2000 when the first Ehingbeti was held, exactly 20 years ago, have significantly changed. “As a state, we now have to cater for the infrastructural needs of more than 22 million population and ensure that Lagos remains on the path of continuous growth.” The Lagos State government has said it expects over 100,000 participants at the 20th anniversary of the Lagos Economic Summit Group (LESG) designed to chart the path for the sustainable socio-economic development of the state. ‘Ehingbeti 2020’ holding November 10-12, 2020 physically and virtually, will provide a robust platform for perspectives on how to manage the peculiar socio-economic landscape of the state in the coming decade. Speaking at the unveiling of the new summit logo, Mr. Oloyemi Cordoso, co-choir of the ‘Ehingbeti 2020’ Steering Committee and former Lagos State commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget said:  “This year’s summit is aimed at reconnecting with the private sector, which is the bedrock of the Logos Economic Summit. “The quest to strengthen the existing relationship between government and the private sector is one of the major goals of this summit since greater private sector participation in governance is a prerequisite for a functional state.” Cardoso said with the absence of the economic summit in the past four years, there seemed to be a decline in the rate of public-private collaboration in the state. Ehingbeti is a public-private sector roundtable that started as a collaborative effort between the Lagos State government and the Business Club, lkeja. The summit, hosted by successive administrations in the state since the beginning of the 4th Republic, has consistently redefined the dynamics of public-private sector collaboration for development across social and economic indices in the state. The commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, who is also a co-chair of the steering committee, Sam Egube, said in the last two decades, Ehingbeti had played a pivotal role in the transformation of Lagos State, with useful inputs into Lagos State Development Plans (lLSDP) “Our realities from 2000 when the first Ehingbeti was held, exactly 20 years ago, have significantly changed. “As a state, we now have to cater for the infrastructural needs of more than 22 million population and ensure that Lagos remains on the path of continuous growth.”