There was tension at Dutse-Apo, a slum community in Apo District in Abuja, at the weekend following the shooting to death of a teenager by a police officer. Residents who spoke to City News said Inspector Johnson Samanja, who is also a resident of the community, allegedly shot the 19-year-old man in the chest in front of a drinking joint in the area. Our reporter, who visited the area on Sunday, gathered that the police officer allegedly shot into the air at first and was cautioned by other residents but that he did not heed the advice and when he shot the second time, the bullet allegedly hit the deceased in the chest. The chief of the community, Ishaya Babowa, told City News that before the incident, the police officer was heard earlier in the day boasting that he would kill one or two persons. The incident, Daily Trust gathered, occurred by 9am, Saturday. The deceased, identified as Samuel Jonathan, a barber, was taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead. The chief of the community added that, some youths irked by the killing, went to the drinking joint, where business was going on as usual, and destroyed the facility, accusing the operators of lack of concern over what happened to their friend. It was further learnt that the youths blocked some roads in protest, before a team of policemen from Apo Division dispersed them. It was also gathered that the suspect was rescued from the mob and taken to the Apo police division by his colleagues. When contacted, the FCT Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mariam Yusuf, confirmed the incident, saying the suspect was arrested and would be charged accordingly. She explained that the family of the deceased had since been contacted.  There was tension at Dutse-Apo, a slum community in Apo District in Abuja, at the weekend following the shooting to death of a teenager by a police officer. Residents who spoke to City News said Inspector Johnson Samanja, who is also a resident of the community, allegedly shot the 19-year-old man in the chest in front of a drinking joint in the area. Our reporter, who visited the area on Sunday, gathered that the police officer allegedly shot into the air at first and was cautioned by other residents but that he did not heed the advice and when he shot the second time, the bullet allegedly hit the deceased in the chest. The chief of the community, Ishaya Babowa, told City News that before the incident, the police officer was heard earlier in the day boasting that he would kill one or two persons. The incident, Daily Trust gathered, occurred by 9am, Saturday. The deceased, identified as Samuel Jonathan, a barber, was taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead. The chief of the community added that, some youths irked by the killing, went to the drinking joint, where business was going on as usual, and destroyed the facility, accusing the operators of lack of concern over what happened to their friend. It was further learnt that the youths blocked some roads in protest, before a team of policemen from Apo Division dispersed them. It was also gathered that the suspect was rescued from the mob and taken to the Apo police division by his colleagues. When contacted, the FCT Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mariam Yusuf, confirmed the incident, saying the suspect was arrested and would be charged accordingly. She explained that the family of the deceased had since been contacted. 