First City Monument Bank (FCMB) has restated its commitment to provide the very best of service delivery and value-added offerings that will consistently enhance the experience of its teeming customers at every touchpoint. The Bank further assured that it will continue to leverage on its solid business models, highly professional staff, innovation, bespoke solutions and technology to turn the aspirations of customers to life-changing opportunities. FCMB gave the assurance in a statement to commemorate this year’s International Customer Service Week, holding from October 5 to 9, 2020, under the theme, “Dream Team”. The Customer Service Week, which started 36 years ago, is a period set aside to recognise and appreciate the job done by people in service organisations in a way that emphasises the importance of customer service in running successful businesses as well as the role of employees towards achieving this. In the statement, FCMB announced several exciting events including rewarding customers with 10 per cent for buying N500 and above airtime via its USSD channel through the week; a virtual quiz session, among others. The Divisional Head, Service Management & Technology of FCMB, Mr. Oluwakayode Adigun, said the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has revolutionized the way organizations and their employees engage with customers.  First City Monument Bank (FCMB) has restated its commitment to provide the very best of service delivery and value-added offerings that will consistently enhance the experience of its teeming customers at every touchpoint. The Bank further assured that it will continue to leverage on its solid business models, highly professional staff, innovation, bespoke solutions and technology to turn the aspirations of customers to life-changing opportunities. FCMB gave the assurance in a statement to commemorate this year’s International Customer Service Week, holding from October 5 to 9, 2020, under the theme, “Dream Team”. The Customer Service Week, which started 36 years ago, is a period set aside to recognise and appreciate the job done by people in service organisations in a way that emphasises the importance of customer service in running successful businesses as well as the role of employees towards achieving this. In the statement, FCMB announced several exciting events including rewarding customers with 10 per cent for buying N500 and above airtime via its USSD channel through the week; a virtual quiz session, among others. The Divisional Head, Service Management & Technology of FCMB, Mr. Oluwakayode Adigun, said the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has revolutionized the way organizations and their employees engage with customers. 