The Chief Imam of Akure Central Mosque, Abdulhakeem Akorede on Friday cautioned all sons and daughters of Ondo State to shun violence and any act capable of disrupting the Saturday’s governorship election. The Chief Imam also condemned the attitude of some people raining curses on their leaders, asking the Muslim faithful in particular not to indulge in such. While delivering his Friday Juma’at sermon at Akure Central Mosque, Akorede said the extent of character assassination and campaign of calumny on the social media because of the election is alarming. He said people are not expected to malign their leaders but encourage them to succeed because they could find themselves in similar position in future. The Chief Imam urged the people of the state to pray for the election of the best candidate that would work for the progress of the state, saying election should be conducted in an atmosphere of peace and calmness. “We should pray for the progress of the state. Let God direct us to the path of progress. We don’t rain curse on the people in government. It is very wrong and condemnable,” he stated. Akorede decried the nature of politics in the state, saying each actor is beholden to his political party and not necessarily the progress of the state. He said: “But we should always pray for our leaders. You don’t say bad things about your leaders “If others are making bad comments, if you can’t say anything good, just refrain yourself. I see people write all sorts of things on the social media, cursing the people in government. A leader can make mistake, you try to correct him and not raining curses. We shouldn’t be cursing our nation or state, we should say good things about our leaders, pray for them because you or any member of your family may be there tomorrow. “I advise us to go out peacefully and vote for the candidate of your choice. Use your face mask, to avoid being disenfranchised. Ensure social distancing. Don’t argue with anybody at the polling unit so as not to foment any trouble.” Advising people not to go the polling units with any harmful or incriminating object, he said the people should remain law-abiding responsible citizens before and during the election. “I urge us all to remain responsible citizens as you have always done. I pray God will give us the best that would work for the progress of the state and the Muslim community,” he added. The Chief Imam of Akure Central Mosque, Abdulhakeem Akorede on Friday cautioned all sons and daughters of Ondo State to shun violence and any act capable of disrupting the Saturday’s governorship election. The Chief Imam also condemned the attitude of some people raining curses on their leaders, asking the Muslim faithful in particular not to indulge in such. While delivering his Friday Juma’at sermon at Akure Central Mosque, Akorede said the extent of character assassination and campaign of calumny on the social media because of the election is alarming. He said people are not expected to malign their leaders but encourage them to succeed because they could find themselves in similar position in future. The Chief Imam urged the people of the state to pray for the election of the best candidate that would work for the progress of the state, saying election should be conducted in an atmosphere of peace and calmness. “We should pray for the progress of the state. Let God direct us to the path of progress. We don’t rain curse on the people in government. It is very wrong and condemnable,” he stated. Akorede decried the nature of politics in the state, saying each actor is beholden to his political party and not necessarily the progress of the state. He said: “But we should always pray for our leaders. You don’t say bad things about your leaders “If others are making bad comments, if you can’t say anything good, just refrain yourself. I see people write all sorts of things on the social media, cursing the people in government. A leader can make mistake, you try to correct him and not raining curses. We shouldn’t be cursing our nation or state, we should say good things about our leaders, pray for them because you or any member of your family may be there tomorrow. “I advise us to go out peacefully and vote for the candidate of your choice. Use your face mask, to avoid being disenfranchised. Ensure social distancing. Don’t argue with anybody at the polling unit so as not to foment any trouble.” Advising people not to go the polling units with any harmful or incriminating object, he said the people should remain law-abiding responsible citizens before and during the election. “I urge us all to remain responsible citizens as you have always done. I pray God will give us the best that would work for the progress of the state and the Muslim community,” he added.