Teachers of primary schools in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have embarked on indefinite strike action over non-payment of their new minimum wage as schools resume academic activities across the territory today. The Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello, had last Thursday, ordered all schools to reopen for academic activities as from October 11, 2020, but teachers under the umbrella of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) would begin strike action to press home the implementation of the minimum wage in their salary scale. Addressing newsmen after an emergency meeting of the FCT Wing Executive Council of the (NUT) at the teachers’ house in Gwagwalada, yesterday, acting state secretary of the NUT, Comrade Margaret Jethro, said no teacher will resume classes until the new minimum wage is paid. She said the strike is coming as the last resort after a series of correspondence with the six area council chairmen did not yield positive results and a seven-day ultimatum was issued. “And it is in the light of the above that the union writes to notify all heads of primary school teachers across the FCT of commencement of an indefinite strike action as from Monday, 12 October, 2020 till such a time the new minimum wage is implemented,” she said. The chairman of Gwagwalada Area Council, Alhaji Adamu Mustapha, who is also the FCT ALGON chairman could not be reached for comments as his phone was switched off.  Teachers of primary schools in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have embarked on indefinite strike action over non-payment of their new minimum wage as schools resume academic activities across the territory today. The Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello, had last Thursday, ordered all schools to reopen for academic activities as from October 11, 2020, but teachers under the umbrella of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) would begin strike action to press home the implementation of the minimum wage in their salary scale. Addressing newsmen after an emergency meeting of the FCT Wing Executive Council of the (NUT) at the teachers’ house in Gwagwalada, yesterday, acting state secretary of the NUT, Comrade Margaret Jethro, said no teacher will resume classes until the new minimum wage is paid. She said the strike is coming as the last resort after a series of correspondence with the six area council chairmen did not yield positive results and a seven-day ultimatum was issued. “And it is in the light of the above that the union writes to notify all heads of primary school teachers across the FCT of commencement of an indefinite strike action as from Monday, 12 October, 2020 till such a time the new minimum wage is implemented,” she said. The chairman of Gwagwalada Area Council, Alhaji Adamu Mustapha, who is also the FCT ALGON chairman could not be reached for comments as his phone was switched off. 