The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has asked the reappointed INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu to ensure that all future elections are credible and conclusive. President Muhammadu Buhari has renewed the appointment of Yakubu for another term of five years. The PDP in a statement on Wednesday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan said the re-appointment entrusts on Prof. Yakubu the fate, hope and future of Nigerians as well as the generations yet unborn. “In the light of this five-year extension, our party hopes that the failures, disappointments and miscarriages that characterized the first five years tenure of Yakubu will have no place in the new order. “It is therefore instructive to state that with his re-appointment, Prof Yakubu has been given an ample time and opportunity to redeem himself, the image of the commission and preparation for credible, free and fair elections in our country. “At least, with this reappointment whatever happens in our future elections cannot be ascribed to inexperience and lack of adequate preparedness on the side of INEC. “Furthermore, we consider this reappointment by President Buhari as an impetus to demonstrate a readiness for a free fair and credible election, which Mr. President had always promised to bequeath at the end of his second and final term in office in 2023,” the PDP said. The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has asked the reappointed INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu to ensure that all future elections are credible and conclusive. President Muhammadu Buhari has renewed the appointment of Yakubu for another term of five years. The PDP in a statement on Wednesday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan said the re-appointment entrusts on Prof. Yakubu the fate, hope and future of Nigerians as well as the generations yet unborn. “In the light of this five-year extension, our party hopes that the failures, disappointments and miscarriages that characterized the first five years tenure of Yakubu will have no place in the new order. “It is therefore instructive to state that with his re-appointment, Prof Yakubu has been given an ample time and opportunity to redeem himself, the image of the commission and preparation for credible, free and fair elections in our country. “At least, with this reappointment whatever happens in our future elections cannot be ascribed to inexperience and lack of adequate preparedness on the side of INEC. “Furthermore, we consider this reappointment by President Buhari as an impetus to demonstrate a readiness for a free fair and credible election, which Mr. President had always promised to bequeath at the end of his second and final term in office in 2023,” the PDP said.