The Atlantic Marine and Engineering Services Limited (AMES) said it is investing N7 billion to construct an inland dry port in Benin City, Edo State, which could process 20,000 containers and could create 5,000 jobs The Managing Director, Engr. Charles Akhigbe, said citing the port in Edo was due to its position as a logistic hub having been on the ECOWAS trade routes. Speaking with newsmen in Lagos, he stated that the dry port has been designed to hold 20,000 containers at a time. He explained that phase one will hold 12,000 and phase two would hold 8,000 with offices for Customs, quarantine and other agencies operating at the port. He disclosed that the construction of the project has reached 80 percent stage while the firm is working with the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) and Federal Ministry of Transportation to ensure that the project meets its targeted time. Akhigbe said in preparation for takeoff, AMES has forged partnership with the farmers’ oasis and Free On Board international logistics, to process and package for export about 100 tonnes daily. The Managing Director, Farmers Oasis Resources Limited, Odianonse Isaac Ebewele, said the inland dry port would make it possible to take Nigerian food to the world. The Atlantic Marine and Engineering Services Limited (AMES) said it is investing N7 billion to construct an inland dry port in Benin City, Edo State, which could process 20,000 containers and could create 5,000 jobs The Managing Director, Engr. Charles Akhigbe, said citing the port in Edo was due to its position as a logistic hub having been on the ECOWAS trade routes. Speaking with newsmen in Lagos, he stated that the dry port has been designed to hold 20,000 containers at a time. He explained that phase one will hold 12,000 and phase two would hold 8,000 with offices for Customs, quarantine and other agencies operating at the port. He disclosed that the construction of the project has reached 80 percent stage while the firm is working with the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) and Federal Ministry of Transportation to ensure that the project meets its targeted time. Akhigbe said in preparation for takeoff, AMES has forged partnership with the farmers’ oasis and Free On Board international logistics, to process and package for export about 100 tonnes daily. The Managing Director, Farmers Oasis Resources Limited, Odianonse Isaac Ebewele, said the inland dry port would make it possible to take Nigerian food to the world.