Chairman, Ohanaeze Ndigbo in diaspora, Dr Nwachukwu Anakwenze, has disclosed that South-East governors, Ohanaeze Ndigbo and some church leaders will, on December 27, organise rallies to drum support for Igbo presidency comes 2023. He made the disclosure on Friday in Awka, the Anambra State capital. According to him, they have concluded arrangements to write the President, Muhammadu Buhari, the leaderships of the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party to notify them of the need to cede the presidency to the zone. He said the rallies would be held in Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo States simultaneously. “Those we are considering for the presidential seat from Igbo are present and past governors, senators and House of Representatives members from the zone who are performers. “We envision a Nigeria where leadership is based on the ability to work hard, where fairness reigns with a sense of direction and accountability to the various groups and for the common good of the country. “It’s now the turn of South-East region to provide good leadership for the good of all Nigerians so as to move Nigeria in a positive direction. “For the good of Nigeria, we believe our geo-political interest should extend to ethnic regions in Nigeria that aspire to its mission of uniting all Nigerians of like minds, through the concept of standing together for the betterment of the entire Nigeria. “We believe in alignment. We cannot get presidency by ourselves, even if all the Igbo vote. “We are already working with people from other zones and we are in talks with them already. “Ndigbo and some other regions believe more in a restructured Nigeria. “People can feel free to have their aspirations and you can not stop them. “There is need to restructure Nigeria to ensure true federalism based on regions or zones. “We need Nigeria political structure that is based on equity, fair play, balance and equal access to political power for the good of all Nigerians,” he said. Chairman, Ohanaeze Ndigbo in diaspora, Dr Nwachukwu Anakwenze, has disclosed that South-East governors, Ohanaeze Ndigbo and some church leaders will, on December 27, organise rallies to drum support for Igbo presidency comes 2023. He made the disclosure on Friday in Awka, the Anambra State capital. According to him, they have concluded arrangements to write the President, Muhammadu Buhari, the leaderships of the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party to notify them of the need to cede the presidency to the zone. He said the rallies would be held in Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo States simultaneously. “Those we are considering for the presidential seat from Igbo are present and past governors, senators and House of Representatives members from the zone who are performers. “We envision a Nigeria where leadership is based on the ability to work hard, where fairness reigns with a sense of direction and accountability to the various groups and for the common good of the country. “It’s now the turn of South-East region to provide good leadership for the good of all Nigerians so as to move Nigeria in a positive direction. “For the good of Nigeria, we believe our geo-political interest should extend to ethnic regions in Nigeria that aspire to its mission of uniting all Nigerians of like minds, through the concept of standing together for the betterment of the entire Nigeria. “We believe in alignment. We cannot get presidency by ourselves, even if all the Igbo vote. “We are already working with people from other zones and we are in talks with them already. “Ndigbo and some other regions believe more in a restructured Nigeria. “People can feel free to have their aspirations and you can not stop them. “There is need to restructure Nigeria to ensure true federalism based on regions or zones. “We need Nigeria political structure that is based on equity, fair play, balance and equal access to political power for the good of all Nigerians,” he said.