Authority in charge of Seme Area Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), has said it intercepted 396 bags of rice, 152 jerry cans loaded with petroleum products and seven smuggled vehicles during the EndSARS protest. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, Husaini Abdullahi, in a statement also refuted claims that Officers of the command and other Security agencies vacated their duty post at Seme-Badagry road for fear of being attacked. Abdullahi said during the EndSARS protest that lasted for 14 days, officers were not only in their various duty posts but reinvigorated their anti-smuggling operations. He said the seizures were made from October 12, 2020, to date, which falls within the period of the protest “The Command intercepted 396X50KG of foreign parboiled rice, 152X25 jerry cans of Premium Motor Spirit, and 6X25 litres of Vegetable Oil and several units of smuggled vehicles. The above mentioned seized items have a total Duty Paid Value worth millions of naira. “It is on this premise that the Command appeals to members of the public to disregard this misinformed publication that was built based on fallacy and may affect the morale of officers who day and night risk their lives to protect our borders. “To this end, the Command will continue to enforce Federal Government fiscal policies, provide professional and quality service that will enhance the development of the country at large.”  Authority in charge of Seme Area Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), has said it intercepted 396 bags of rice, 152 jerry cans loaded with petroleum products and seven smuggled vehicles during the EndSARS protest. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, Husaini Abdullahi, in a statement also refuted claims that Officers of the command and other Security agencies vacated their duty post at Seme-Badagry road for fear of being attacked. Abdullahi said during the EndSARS protest that lasted for 14 days, officers were not only in their various duty posts but reinvigorated their anti-smuggling operations. He said the seizures were made from October 12, 2020, to date, which falls within the period of the protest “The Command intercepted 396X50KG of foreign parboiled rice, 152X25 jerry cans of Premium Motor Spirit, and 6X25 litres of Vegetable Oil and several units of smuggled vehicles. The above mentioned seized items have a total Duty Paid Value worth millions of naira. “It is on this premise that the Command appeals to members of the public to disregard this misinformed publication that was built based on fallacy and may affect the morale of officers who day and night risk their lives to protect our borders. “To this end, the Command will continue to enforce Federal Government fiscal policies, provide professional and quality service that will enhance the development of the country at large.” 