Chairman of Air Peace, Mr. Allen Onyema applauded the decision of President Muhammadu Buhari to ratify the bilateral air service agreements (BASAs) with the United States, India, Morocco and Rwanda. He said the signing “is yet another testimony of the commitment of this government to the growth of the domestic aviation industry.” Daily Trust reports that Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi had disclosed that the instrument of ratification of the BASAs with the four countries was signed by Buhari on September 30. Onyema in a statement said, “This couldn’t have happened at a better time than now that the domestic industry requires all the support to stay afloat. “It is most commendable and I promise Mr. President that the gains thereof shall be fully harnessed.” To the minister, he said: “His determination to raise the local bar is palpable. I can say for sure that the era of lop-sidedness against Nigeria in international aviation is over. “What Mr. President has done is a call for local operators to build capacity and remain competitive in the global air space. This shall increase job opportunities and ancillary benefits to the domestic economy. I thank you Mr President for this patriotic master stroke.”  Chairman of Air Peace, Mr. Allen Onyema applauded the decision of President Muhammadu Buhari to ratify the bilateral air service agreements (BASAs) with the United States, India, Morocco and Rwanda. He said the signing “is yet another testimony of the commitment of this government to the growth of the domestic aviation industry.” Daily Trust reports that Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi had disclosed that the instrument of ratification of the BASAs with the four countries was signed by Buhari on September 30. Onyema in a statement said, “This couldn’t have happened at a better time than now that the domestic industry requires all the support to stay afloat. “It is most commendable and I promise Mr. President that the gains thereof shall be fully harnessed.” To the minister, he said: “His determination to raise the local bar is palpable. I can say for sure that the era of lop-sidedness against Nigeria in international aviation is over. “What Mr. President has done is a call for local operators to build capacity and remain competitive in the global air space. This shall increase job opportunities and ancillary benefits to the domestic economy. I thank you Mr President for this patriotic master stroke.” 