Azman Air has successfully completed the international Air Transport Association Operational Safety Audit (IOSA). The audit certifies the airline as meeting the highest safety standards for operating regional and international operations. The airline disclosed this in a statement, saying it is part of its preparations to launch regional and international flight operations. The airline said, “In our relentless and renewed dedication to comply with the most stringent of rules and practices governing aviation safety, Azman Air has successfully passed its internal audit and now certified by the IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA).” The IATA Operational Safety Audit is an internationally recognised and accepted evaluation system designed to access the operational management and control system of the airline. This is significantly historic milestone and a major boost to our safety reputation as plans have been concluded to commence West Coast and International operations,” the airline said. Azman Air has successfully completed the international Air Transport Association Operational Safety Audit (IOSA). The audit certifies the airline as meeting the highest safety standards for operating regional and international operations. The airline disclosed this in a statement, saying it is part of its preparations to launch regional and international flight operations. The airline said, “In our relentless and renewed dedication to comply with the most stringent of rules and practices governing aviation safety, Azman Air has successfully passed its internal audit and now certified by the IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA).” The IATA Operational Safety Audit is an internationally recognised and accepted evaluation system designed to access the operational management and control system of the airline. This is significantly historic milestone and a major boost to our safety reputation as plans have been concluded to commence West Coast and International operations,” the airline said.