Bauchi State Chairman of People’s Redemption Party (PRP) Shehu Barau Ningi has dumped the party and returned to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The chairman disclosed his resignation to the PRP leadership in a letter dated October 19 and copied to state chairman of the APC, Uba Nana and made available to newsmen Wednesday in Bauchi. He cited leadership crisis that engulfed the party at the national level. The letter reads, “With effect from the date of this letter- I hereby notify you of my decision to resign as a member of the People’s Redemption Party, PRP, and concomitantly as Chairman of the Bauchi State Chapter due to the leadership crisis between National Executive Committee and Board of Trustees. “I must state that the last stroke which broke the camel’s back were the events of the last few weeks which made me a scapegoat as a consequence of irrationality, indiscipline, blind and criminal personal ambition of some members of the party which naturally ought not to be so.” Barau Ningi explained that he did not table his resignation during the buildup to the just concluded local government elections in Bauchi so as not to allow room for mischief makers and wanton character assassinators to link his resignation to ruling party the PDP in relation to the election. Bauchi State Chairman of People’s Redemption Party (PRP) Shehu Barau Ningi has dumped the party and returned to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The chairman disclosed his resignation to the PRP leadership in a letter dated October 19 and copied to state chairman of the APC, Uba Nana and made available to newsmen Wednesday in Bauchi. He cited leadership crisis that engulfed the party at the national level. The letter reads, “With effect from the date of this letter- I hereby notify you of my decision to resign as a member of the People’s Redemption Party, PRP, and concomitantly as Chairman of the Bauchi State Chapter due to the leadership crisis between National Executive Committee and Board of Trustees. “I must state that the last stroke which broke the camel’s back were the events of the last few weeks which made me a scapegoat as a consequence of irrationality, indiscipline, blind and criminal personal ambition of some members of the party which naturally ought not to be so.” Barau Ningi explained that he did not table his resignation during the buildup to the just concluded local government elections in Bauchi so as not to allow room for mischief makers and wanton character assassinators to link his resignation to ruling party the PDP in relation to the election.