Members of the private sector-led coalition against COVID-19 (CACOVID) said it commenced palliatives distribution to the states since June. It urged Nigerians to stop wanton destruction of public and private properties and looting of the warehouses where the palliatives are kept to immediately in order to allow the states to proceed with a peaceful and fair distribution of the palliatives to the neediest and most vulnerable in the society. The Coalition in a statement explained that, though it embarked on the palliative effort in April, the first deliveries could not start until June this year to the state governments. “However, as of October 2020, a sizable portion of the items had been delivered but yet to be distributed by the Governors. Although various states and the FCT had commenced flag-off of the distribution of the food items since early August, some could not conclude the distribution as they were yet to receive complete deliveries of the items allotted to them.” In a statement signed by Osita Nwasinobi, CACOVID explained that 10 million vulnerable Nigerians were targeted to benefit from the Palliatives sent to the State governments across all the 774 local governments in the country. CACOVID further stated that:  “As of today, October 26, 2020, some states have confirmed completion of their distribution while others were in the process of proceeding with the distribution before these lootings took place.” The coalition assured that it would publish the full delivery schedule and flag-off date by each state.  Members of the private sector-led coalition against COVID-19 (CACOVID) said it commenced palliatives distribution to the states since June. It urged Nigerians to stop wanton destruction of public and private properties and looting of the warehouses where the palliatives are kept to immediately in order to allow the states to proceed with a peaceful and fair distribution of the palliatives to the neediest and most vulnerable in the society. The Coalition in a statement explained that, though it embarked on the palliative effort in April, the first deliveries could not start until June this year to the state governments. “However, as of October 2020, a sizable portion of the items had been delivered but yet to be distributed by the Governors. Although various states and the FCT had commenced flag-off of the distribution of the food items since early August, some could not conclude the distribution as they were yet to receive complete deliveries of the items allotted to them.” In a statement signed by Osita Nwasinobi, CACOVID explained that 10 million vulnerable Nigerians were targeted to benefit from the Palliatives sent to the State governments across all the 774 local governments in the country. CACOVID further stated that:  “As of today, October 26, 2020, some states have confirmed completion of their distribution while others were in the process of proceeding with the distribution before these lootings took place.” The coalition assured that it would publish the full delivery schedule and flag-off date by each state. 