The Minister of State for Power, Prince Goddy Jedy-Agba, has met with stakeholders, including youths and traditional rulers in Calabar, the Cross River State capital, and urged protesters to be calm in the wake of the EndSARS protest. A statement from his office said the forum was in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s directives towards ending the nationwide EndSARS crisis. Addressing the Obong of Calabar, Edidem Ekpo Okon Abasi Otu V, in his palace and the Muri Munene of Efut, HRM Prof. Itam Hogan Itam, the minister said the federal government was not unaware of the problems and challenges, so it was working to address them. “We are in the state on the directives of Mr President of Nigeria Muhammadu Buhari, to assess the devastation and wanton destruction as a result of the spontaneous youth protest that took place across the country,” he said. The minister disclosed that the government is committed to providing jobs and ensuring at least 20 hours of electricity supply for premium customers. He, therefore, advised the youths to take ownership of critical government assets and infrastructure, rather than destroy them, and work with the government in its resolve to build the country and develop its economy. The Obong advised the emulation of the colonial masters by including the traditional councils with defined roles in the constitution. Itam urged the government to ensure that it fulfilled its promises to the people at the grassroots to forestall a recurrence of youth restiveness. Representatives of the youth expressed regret over the unfortunate acts of vandalism and looting perpetrated by some young people and called for calm in the overall interest of the nation.  The Minister of State for Power, Prince Goddy Jedy-Agba, has met with stakeholders, including youths and traditional rulers in Calabar, the Cross River State capital, and urged protesters to be calm in the wake of the EndSARS protest. A statement from his office said the forum was in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s directives towards ending the nationwide EndSARS crisis. Addressing the Obong of Calabar, Edidem Ekpo Okon Abasi Otu V, in his palace and the Muri Munene of Efut, HRM Prof. Itam Hogan Itam, the minister said the federal government was not unaware of the problems and challenges, so it was working to address them. “We are in the state on the directives of Mr President of Nigeria Muhammadu Buhari, to assess the devastation and wanton destruction as a result of the spontaneous youth protest that took place across the country,” he said. The minister disclosed that the government is committed to providing jobs and ensuring at least 20 hours of electricity supply for premium customers. He, therefore, advised the youths to take ownership of critical government assets and infrastructure, rather than destroy them, and work with the government in its resolve to build the country and develop its economy. The Obong advised the emulation of the colonial masters by including the traditional councils with defined roles in the constitution. Itam urged the government to ensure that it fulfilled its promises to the people at the grassroots to forestall a recurrence of youth restiveness. Representatives of the youth expressed regret over the unfortunate acts of vandalism and looting perpetrated by some young people and called for calm in the overall interest of the nation. 