Two persons were killed on Wednesday morning while another was injured at Iyana Ipaja, Lagos, when a passenger (Bus Rapid Transit) bus crushed a commercial motorcycle illegally plying a BRT-dedicated lane. The deceased were the motorcycle rider and one of his two passengers. The second passenger was rushed to the hospital. The identities of the victims could not be ascertained by press time yesterday. Following the death of the two persons in the accident, many ‘okada’ riders attacked the driver and vandalized the Mercedes Benz bus in retaliation. “They would have completely destroyed the bus if not for the early arrival of the police, who dispersed the irate riders,” a source said. Our correspondent reports that despite the state government’s extant ban of ‘okada’ operation on BRT lanes and major roads and bridges in the state, many of the riders have been brazenly flouting the law due to the relaxation of enforcement by security agencies. The Lagos State Police Command Public Relations Officer, Superintendent Muyiwa Adejobi, confirmed the incident. Two persons were killed on Wednesday morning while another was injured at Iyana Ipaja, Lagos, when a passenger (Bus Rapid Transit) bus crushed a commercial motorcycle illegally plying a BRT-dedicated lane. The deceased were the motorcycle rider and one of his two passengers. The second passenger was rushed to the hospital. The identities of the victims could not be ascertained by press time yesterday. Following the death of the two persons in the accident, many ‘okada’ riders attacked the driver and vandalized the Mercedes Benz bus in retaliation. “They would have completely destroyed the bus if not for the early arrival of the police, who dispersed the irate riders,” a source said. Our correspondent reports that despite the state government’s extant ban of ‘okada’ operation on BRT lanes and major roads and bridges in the state, many of the riders have been brazenly flouting the law due to the relaxation of enforcement by security agencies. The Lagos State Police Command Public Relations Officer, Superintendent Muyiwa Adejobi, confirmed the incident.