The Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools (ASUSS), in Ekiti State, has distributed N5 million as reward to retired members of the union to celebrate their contributions after working for 35 years. The teachers also demanded full digitization of the school curriculum by making computer studies a compulsory subject in the curriculum for the primary and secondary cadres in the state. The body said,  as of September 2020, about 1.277 billion learners were affected globally due to school closure in response to the coronavirus pandemic, describing this as dangerous to the future of the present generation. ASUSS chairman in Ekiti, Com Sola Adigun, who spoke on Saturday while honouring 71 union members who retired from the state teaching service commission in 2020, said the gifts were signs that the union valued the contributions the retirees made to the development of education. He added that 12 retirees who are subscribers to the union’s new retirement saving “Mayederun Retirement Saving” have received credit alerts of their contributions with interest. ASUSS commended Governor Kayode Fayemi for the ongoing construction of four new secondary schools in the state. The Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools (ASUSS), in Ekiti State, has distributed N5 million as reward to retired members of the union to celebrate their contributions after working for 35 years. The teachers also demanded full digitization of the school curriculum by making computer studies a compulsory subject in the curriculum for the primary and secondary cadres in the state. The body said,  as of September 2020, about 1.277 billion learners were affected globally due to school closure in response to the coronavirus pandemic, describing this as dangerous to the future of the present generation. ASUSS chairman in Ekiti, Com Sola Adigun, who spoke on Saturday while honouring 71 union members who retired from the state teaching service commission in 2020, said the gifts were signs that the union valued the contributions the retirees made to the development of education. He added that 12 retirees who are subscribers to the union’s new retirement saving “Mayederun Retirement Saving” have received credit alerts of their contributions with interest. ASUSS commended Governor Kayode Fayemi for the ongoing construction of four new secondary schools in the state.