The candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the just concluded governorship election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu has left out the name of former national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, in acknowledging the contributions of party leaders and others in the pursuit of his political ambition during the election. Oshiomhole was instrumental to Ize-Iyamu returning to APC from the PDP as well as emerging the governorship candidate of the party. Ize-lyamu suffered a second electoral defeat in his eight years struggle to become the governor of Edo state. Obaseki defeated Ize-Iyamu with 307,955 votes as against 223,619 votes polled by Ize-Iyamu Speaking in a statement where he declared that he would not approach the Election petition tribunal to challenge the election results, however, acknowledged the role some APC leaders played before and during the election. “Let me once again whole heartedly thank the President and Commander – in- Chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammad Buhari (GCFR), for his statesmanship and support throughout the election campaign. “We thank the National Leadership of our party led by HE Mai Mala Buni, Governor of Yobe State; our National Campaign Council led by HE Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, Governor of Kano State; APC Governors; leaders and members of the National Assembly and other leaders of our party at both national and state levels for their immense contributions. “We also sincerely thank HRM Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare ll, the Oba of Benin; the Otaru of Auchi, Alhaji Aliru Momoh, Ikelebe lll, and our other Royal Fathers for their unceasing prayers for the peace of the state before, during and after the election”. But the name of the former APC national chairman, Comrade Oshiomole, who played a frontline role in canvassing support for the APC candidate was missing in his acknowledgement list.  The candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the just concluded governorship election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu has left out the name of former national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, in acknowledging the contributions of party leaders and others in the pursuit of his political ambition during the election. Oshiomhole was instrumental to Ize-Iyamu returning to APC from the PDP as well as emerging the governorship candidate of the party. Ize-lyamu suffered a second electoral defeat in his eight years struggle to become the governor of Edo state. Obaseki defeated Ize-Iyamu with 307,955 votes as against 223,619 votes polled by Ize-Iyamu Speaking in a statement where he declared that he would not approach the Election petition tribunal to challenge the election results, however, acknowledged the role some APC leaders played before and during the election. “Let me once again whole heartedly thank the President and Commander – in- Chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammad Buhari (GCFR), for his statesmanship and support throughout the election campaign. “We thank the National Leadership of our party led by HE Mai Mala Buni, Governor of Yobe State; our National Campaign Council led by HE Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, Governor of Kano State; APC Governors; leaders and members of the National Assembly and other leaders of our party at both national and state levels for their immense contributions. “We also sincerely thank HRM Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare ll, the Oba of Benin; the Otaru of Auchi, Alhaji Aliru Momoh, Ikelebe lll, and our other Royal Fathers for their unceasing prayers for the peace of the state before, during and after the election”. But the name of the former APC national chairman, Comrade Oshiomole, who played a frontline role in canvassing support for the APC candidate was missing in his acknowledgement list. 