American President Donald Trump has told Fox News that he would not participate in the second debate between him and his Democratic challenger, Joe Biden, which the U.S. Commission on Presidential Debates had announced would be virtual. “The commission changed the debate style and that’s not acceptable to us. I beat him in the first debate, I beat him easily. “I will beat him in the second debate also. I’m not going to do a virtual debate. I’m not going to waste my time at a virtual debate,” he said. He said the idea of sitting in front of a computer to debate was ridiculous, adding that the commission was trying to protect Biden. Trump triggered concerns about the safety of the second debate on Oct. 1 when he announced he had tested positive for COVID-19. He spent three days at the Walter Reed Medical Centre near Washington before returning to the White House on Monday. In a tweet, the president had said he looked forward to debating Biden on stage in Miami, adding that it would be a great idea. Biden said he and the president “shouldn’t have a debate” as long as Trump remained COVID-19 positive, and if it must hold, strict guidelines had to be followed. The commission had, earlier yesterday, said the decision to hold the virtual debate was taken to “protect the health and safety of all involved with the second presidential debate.” “The second presidential debate will take the form of a town meeting, in which the candidates would participate from separate remote locations.” (NAN) American President Donald Trump has told Fox News that he would not participate in the second debate between him and his Democratic challenger, Joe Biden, which the U.S. Commission on Presidential Debates had announced would be virtual. “The commission changed the debate style and that’s not acceptable to us. I beat him in the first debate, I beat him easily. “I will beat him in the second debate also. I’m not going to do a virtual debate. I’m not going to waste my time at a virtual debate,” he said. He said the idea of sitting in front of a computer to debate was ridiculous, adding that the commission was trying to protect Biden. Trump triggered concerns about the safety of the second debate on Oct. 1 when he announced he had tested positive for COVID-19. He spent three days at the Walter Reed Medical Centre near Washington before returning to the White House on Monday. In a tweet, the president had said he looked forward to debating Biden on stage in Miami, adding that it would be a great idea. Biden said he and the president “shouldn’t have a debate” as long as Trump remained COVID-19 positive, and if it must hold, strict guidelines had to be followed. The commission had, earlier yesterday, said the decision to hold the virtual debate was taken to “protect the health and safety of all involved with the second presidential debate.” “The second presidential debate will take the form of a town meeting, in which the candidates would participate from separate remote locations.” (NAN)