An Abuja based Civil Society Organisation (CSO), Citizens Action for Good Governance (CAGG), has launched a campaign, ‘Police Lives Matter’ as part of efforts to ensure justice for murdered and injured police personnel before and during the #EndSARS crisis. The National Coordinator, CAGG, Nazir Galadanchi, at a press conference held in Abuja, over the current state of security in the country, condemned the acts of violence, arson, vandalism, mayhem, and looting in certain parts of the country in the name of #EndSARS protests. “Those who took advantage of the situation to loot and destroy public and private facilities should be immediately arrested and prosecuted. “We are aware that the real intention was to demoralise the  police personnel by burning their facilities, carting away their weapons, and killing their colleagues. The aim was also to demonise and intimidate the men and women of the force. But they are totally wrong and have failed. “We hereby commiserate with the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammad Adamu, and families of the police personnel who lost their lives, including the injured, during the unfortunate incidents across the country,” he said. The group urged the government to focus on the welfare of police officers and men in terms of better training, provision of modern kits and equipment, and increase in their salary packages as promised by the president during his national broadcast recently. “We also call on state governors to support the NPF with all the resources they can muster to meet their needs for effective protection of lives and properties of citizens in their states’’, he added.  An Abuja based Civil Society Organisation (CSO), Citizens Action for Good Governance (CAGG), has launched a campaign, ‘Police Lives Matter’ as part of efforts to ensure justice for murdered and injured police personnel before and during the #EndSARS crisis. The National Coordinator, CAGG, Nazir Galadanchi, at a press conference held in Abuja, over the current state of security in the country, condemned the acts of violence, arson, vandalism, mayhem, and looting in certain parts of the country in the name of #EndSARS protests. “Those who took advantage of the situation to loot and destroy public and private facilities should be immediately arrested and prosecuted. “We are aware that the real intention was to demoralise the  police personnel by burning their facilities, carting away their weapons, and killing their colleagues. The aim was also to demonise and intimidate the men and women of the force. But they are totally wrong and have failed. “We hereby commiserate with the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammad Adamu, and families of the police personnel who lost their lives, including the injured, during the unfortunate incidents across the country,” he said. The group urged the government to focus on the welfare of police officers and men in terms of better training, provision of modern kits and equipment, and increase in their salary packages as promised by the president during his national broadcast recently. “We also call on state governors to support the NPF with all the resources they can muster to meet their needs for effective protection of lives and properties of citizens in their states’’, he added. 